[music] You know the story. It's all
about earnings.
>> Equities are priced for perfection in a
world that's not that perfect.
>> This is a very selective market. It is a
stock pickers market.
>> The outlook still looks pretty bright.
>> We are in a sort of meltup and we could
have some correction along the way.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right [music] now.
Coming into Friday, getting the best of
both worlds. The US and Iran lining up a
deal pushing stocks to record highs as
Anthropic is raising money approaching a
$1 trillion valuation. Guidance from
Dell is crushing guest estimates,
sending the stock surging. That stock up
almost 40% this morning.
>> And honestly, it just underscores how
much analysts keep [music]
underestimating how much cash is just
flowing into the AI trade. When you
start looking at the numbers for Dell,
you start understanding the scope of the
underestimation. The fact that they
expect their full year uh full year
revenue to be $167 billion, up from an
initial outlook of $140 billion, which
is roughly where analysts were, it gives
you a sense of the outperformance that
strips away all of our expectations on
the spend. [music] Two things, either
this is growing faster than we expected,
or maybe it's getting a little too
expensive for some companies to justify.
>> Just bring up Dell in the pre-market and
show the dollar change. Check it out.
We're looking at a $120
move in [music] the pre-market. This was
trading south of 120 back in January of
this year. That's just today. The
moonshots you're seeing across single
names like Dell and old school tech
firms. It's just amazing [music] to
witness
>> as they demonstrate how they can fit
into the AI narrative. For Dell, it's
their server demand that absolutely is
skyrocketing. for other places whether
[music] it's Ford and the potential
energy that they could provide to AI or
some of the bitcoin mining companies
that now are AI energy providers it
gives you a sense that AI is the new uh
blockchain or whatever the trend is that
gives you a sense of profitability the
[music] fact is that the amount of money
coming in and I think anthropics uh
potential valuation really underscores
this [music]
is just beyond people's imagination
which is why you can get a valuation of
nearly a trillion dollars which is about
hundred times some of their their their
annual revenues. Now,
>> it's moonshots and dropic this morning
the most valuable AI company when it
comes to Dell. Also, this is a company
that recently [music] landed a huge
contract with the Pentagon and actually
before that the president had said go
out buy Dell. Well, [music] you know,
maybe on his stock vice the president
was actually happy. But when I think of
things like Anthropic and Dell, they are
not just these [music] highf flyers
right now on the stock market. They are
also becoming ever more so integrated
into our industrial complex.
>> I talked about the best of both worlds.
So, that's the tech story. Check out
crude this morning down again [music]
down about 20% so far on the month.
Brent crude negative by 1.5% WTI 87 this
morning. We're close to a 60-day
agreement which then starts [music] a
conversation about what's going to
happen with the uranium but should
reopen the straight former M. This
reportly is on the president's desk and
we're waiting and [music] we're waiting
to see if he signs it.
>> The market's not waiting and that is the
most interesting aspect. [music] We
might see the biggest decline in oil for
this month going back to 2020. People
are saying, "Okay, this is over. Maybe
prices will remain elevated even as the
pros on the ground talk about the
potential for shortages." I can't put
together the idea of inventories.
[music] So, diesel or refined uh
distillate inventories in the United
States are at the lowest level going
back to 2003. [music]
We're talking about potential shortages
and delays getting things restarted. And
people in the paper market are saying,
"We've moved on. This is a non-story
[music] now. Resolve this because we
don't think it can last." It's a
non-story at the moment, but at the same
time, the president hasn't announced it.
It is on his desk. JD Vance yesterday,
the vice president said, "We're very
[music] close." But the Treasury
Secretary was briefing reporters and
said the president will not accept a bad
deal [music] and he has a number of red
lines. And then the vice president was
talking about how they're still going
back and forth [music] on some language
issues. The hardest issue, of course, is
going to be the enriched uranium. And at
that moment, it doesn't look like they
are making a ton of progress. [music]
For now, crude down, stocks up, futures
positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
500. Coming up this hour, Max Kentner of
HSBC with stocks on a 6-day [music]
winning run. The former deputy national
security advisor Victoria Coats as the
US and Iran line up a deal and Angelo
Zeno of CFR as Dell absolutely crushes
analyst estimates. We begin this out
with stocks looking to add to record
highs following Dow's blockbuster
earnings report. Max Kentner of HSBC
writing the close to 100% EPS beat rate
coupled with strong forward guidance of
the US tech sector in Q1 is cushioning
the overall equity market. Max joins us
now for more. Max, we've talked about it
repeatedly. Max Ker, Max overweight and
Max, we got into your danger zone at one
point in this bond market. This market
didn't blink. What gives?
>> Yeah, look uh thanks for having me John.
I think the danger zone for now at least
we can ignore it. we can ignore these
higher yields because there's a couple
of things I think happening over the
last two three months. We've obviously
seen yields start to go up in in
treasuries in conjunction with that much
much better earning season. You guys
were just uh bringing up that tech had
an almost 100% beat rate. So almost all
of the companies and tech surprising to
the upside. I would look also at the
worst beat rate. If you look at Telos,
Telos had an earnings beat rate that was
just the average beat rate of the S&P in
the 2010s. that at the moment is the
worst beat rate across the sectors.
That's how strong and how broad-based of
an of a reporting season and of upside
or prizes we had and that of course was
cushioning really uh uh the equity
market and risk assets overall and that
made us maybe little care a little less
about higher yields. The other thing
that I would say is if you look at yield
increases in the last few years where we
went into that danger zone where yields
really were popping a little bit too
quickly where the velocity was much more
vicious that actually was seeing uh
volatility in rates way way higher. When
you look at the move index we've only
spiked to around 80 in the last couple
of episodes. We spiked to around 130 140
even 180. Now the high was only at about
80 in the move index. So that lower
equity vault also really led to a little
bit of less of a multiple compression.
So to me that is perfectly rational what
the equity market spreads and the
broader risk asset complex have done in
the last two weeks.
>> Max, could you take it an additional
step further? Do you think the forces
driving equities right now are less
rights sensitive and will be even if
this Federal Reserve becomes more
hawkish?
>> No, I I would take it one step further
from your one step further. I think it's
also the economy, right? Let's be
honest. Um let's let's say for example
if 5 years ago I would have come on the
show and would said look I think rates
are going to go from 0 to 5 and a half
in record speed and as a result of that
I think that non-financial corporates in
the US the net interest payments of
those non-financial corporates are now
going to dive to a 20-y year low. I
don't think you guys would have invited
me back. Right? I think you guys would
have been like, well, he's a funny
German, but maybe he he's going to have
to go back to university and study econ
101 a little bit and maybe we'll invite
him back in a few years again. But
that's what's happened. So, I think
we've even in the economy overall
underestimated how less rate sensitive
we are now. How companies have termed
out maturities. Look at the S&P almost
23 of debt in the S&P now expires after
2030. Look at high yield. The maturity
wall that we've got in high yield is
less than 3% of the index this year in
in the US in particular. When you look
at the the amount of triple C's in Euro
high yield, it's about 6% of triple C's.
That used to be like 10 11% in US high
yield just 10 years ago. That used to be
18%. Now it's only about 9% C's. So even
if yields go up, you know, credit is
better quality nowadays. We don't have
the maturity walls as much as we had in
the past. We don't we have companies
even higher rated companies termed out
maturities locked in low coupons you
know so rates really aren't this big big
danger anymore.
>> Max can companies continue to make
earnings like what they've been doing
without some sort of participation with
the with the form of wage gains or a
much tighter labor market.
Yeah, I think so because uh most I mean
obviously most of the earnings increase
that we've seen now has been very very
concentrated and that I think is maybe
going forward from a strategic from a
structural perspective a bit of an issue
a bit of a problem right that when you
look at the S&P 500 it's not really like
we're investing in in 500 companies
we're really investing in sort of 30 40
companies the first 30 companies is
almost twothirds of market cap so Lisa
when you're asking can all of the 500
companies weather this I'm not sure
right when You look for example at the
lower 100 companies within the S&P 500.
I think we are starting to see
management guidance, corporate guidance
deteriorate a little bit. That's clearly
what we've seen in our own analysis on
company earnings call analysis.
Absolutely. The problem there is it
affects more the the companies that have
a very very low waiting in the S&P 500.
Let's give you one example. If you look
at the lower 100 or the last 100
companies in the S&P 500, so the last
20%. They account for a little more than
1% of market cap. So it's not all
companies. Surely the smaller ones, they
will probably struggle a little bit if
let's say the 10 year goes to 5% and
stays there. But for the overall market
direction, that just doesn't matter.
>> If that's the case, Max, what would it
take for you to actually turn less
positive, less overweight?
Um, I like that you said no, not bearish
because that will be that will be a big
hurdle to turn me bearish.
>> I won't get ahead of myself. Go ahead.
>> There we exactly. No, I think the big
big issue is positioning. So,
positioning overall still is pretty
subdued. You know, on our analysis, we
don't really get a proper buy signal nor
a proper sell signal. Positioning even
from systematic strategies, it's not
even at the 50th percentile yet. uh when
you look at equity market participation
for example it's not very broad right we
know that it's mostly been tech and AI
contrast last year liberation day the
V-shaped recovery the amount of uh
companies in the S&P that are above the
50-day moving average they popped from
5% to 85 almost 90% now we've gone from
20% above the 50-day moving average to
only 50 so half of the index isn't
really participating I think if we were
to get some more supportive news out of
the the Middle East and then we get
another pop. we get really sort of the
rate sensitive cyclical stuff
participating which I think is the next
big trade your regional banks retail you
[snorts] know things like homebuilders
if that starts to participate I think
there is a reasonable basis to say
that's probably the very last leg then
participation rises positioning rises
and after that I think it's time to take
a couple chips off the table
>> Max there is one line that stuck out to
me in your note and it was that you
doubt investors will fully embrace
progress in the US Iran talks instead
point to lack details which keep
positioning low. Are you basically
saying until we get a proper deal, which
Max could take months, we're not going
to see this rally broaden out.
No, that's not what I'm saying. I think
uh progressively or incrementally better
news. That actually means that
incrementally I think people will give
up on oh yeah, I'm just long tech and AI
and I actually cannot embrace that
broadbased earnings recovery that we've
seen in the first quarter. I need to
stick to that uh narrow set of stocks
that have been working. Actually, I
think over the next couple of weeks and
months, we will start to realize, hold
on, look at the last month and a half.
For example, we've had activity data
surprises in the US that clearly have
been going uh going up. So, clearly
improved. I think for now, people are
probably reluctant to put th those kinds
of trades on because we had that rate
selloff, right? We still have horm
closed. So, there are some sort of
worries in the background. But I think
with time we'll start to realize that
particularly cyclicality in the US is
much much more insulated from what's
happening in the Middle East than
perhaps we thought three months ago.
>> Hey Max, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you sir. Max Kenna of HSBC out
of London. Still constructive on this
equity market for good reason. Alltime
highs and a rally over the last three
months. The straight's been closed for 3
months. The rally of more than 20% on
the NASDAQ. Do you know what Europe's
done? Nothing. Down about 1% over the
same period. If you take a look at some
of the consumer cyclicals in the United
States, it might look more like Europe.
This is not a story about overall
broad-based US economic growth. This is
an AI moonshot and that's essentially
being reflected in names that aren't
traditionally AI moonshot names, but are
managing to tap into the story.
>> Speaking of Europe, just to indicate and
highlight how different the conversation
is around central bank policy, we're
having a conversation about dropping an
easing bias. Before maybe we shift to a
conversation about hiking rates, an ECB
official just caught my eye across the
Bloomberg terminal discussing the timing
of the second rate hike before they've
even got to the first rate hike, which
might be a few weeks away.
>> Yeah, right now the market's pricing at
an 89% chance that there's going to be
an ECB rate hike in June, which would be
their first going back to 2023. And
going back to the conversation we've
been having this week, central bank rate
hikes usually are not done in 25 basis
point increments and then that's the end
of the cycle. Usually it's a rate hiking
cycle which indicates how they really do
have a primary focus on inflation and
maybe not so much on growth because
we're talking about growth flagging and
yet they need to raise rates even though
the US is not. I mean really it's sort
of by betting
>> constrained by a single mandate. You've
said that repeatedly throughout this
crisis. Equity futures right now just
about positive on the S&P with an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Fonnie Quinn has
more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. The US and Iran
reaching a preliminary deal to extend
the ceasefire by 60 days. Vice President
JD Van [music] saying the two countries
are ironing out details with Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessant reiterating
President [music] Trump's red lines on
reopening the straightfor and Iran
surrendering its enriched uranium.
Anthropic raising a fresh $65 billion in
its latest funding round. The funding
was led by several [music] companies as
well as Google and Amazon who each
contributed several billion dollars. The
influx lifting Anthropic past its rival
OpenAI's valuation for the first time.
Dell shares extending gains in the
pre-market. The hardware giant seeing an
almost 40% surge [music] in extended
trading after its sales outlook just
blew past estimates. The company seeing
sustained strong demand for its servers
that power AI computing. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> what a move, Vonnie. Thank you. Up 38%
in the pre-market. Up next on the
program, pushing for a peace deal.
>> There are a lot of details to work out.
I think we're making progress. We'll get
to a point where we could potentially
sit down and settle these issues. We're
not there yet, but we're very close.
We're going to keep on working at it.
>> Up next, we catch up with the former
deputy national security adviser,
[music] Victoria Coats, live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
>> [music]
>> Six day winning run in the equity market
this morning on the S&P 500. Up again by
almost a tenth of 1% on the [music]
NASDAQ just about unchanged but closing
yesterday once again at alltime highs.
Tracking the latest the bull parade.
Check it out. I've counted 10 firms who
have upgraded their price target on the
S&P 500 over the last three months since
this war [music] started. Bullish and
bullish. Why? It's the same response
again and again and [music] again.
>> I'm going to channel Bob Dole. Earnings,
earnings, earnings. I mean, essentially
everybody comes on and says that they've
actually blown expectations out of the
water. And you [music] see it in a
broad-based number of companies, not
just those related to AI. But it turns
out more companies are related to AI
than they previously imagined. We're
talking about Dell, we're talking about
Ford, we're talking about
>> [music]
>> uh Bitcoin miners that all have found
ways to tap into the story and spending
still is continuing very strongly. I'm
not sure how comfortable Bob D will be
with that impression of Bob D.
>> Well, no. Earnings, earnings, earnings.
I was just sort of being Yeah, you know.
Would you like to try?
>> It's not Santa Claus [laughter]
in the bond market. Let's turn to this.
Treasuries 2's 1030s yields lower for
the last six sessions on the 10-year
this morning. That rally stalls at about
445. In the commodity market, crude WTI
and Brent on the week. Oil's down by
close to 10% [music] on the month is
down by close to 20. Big retracement.
Brent crude down to 92, WTI at 87. Under
Savannah this morning, pushing for a
peace deal.
>> There are a lot of details to work out.
I think we're making progress. We're
getting to a point where we could
potentially sit down and settle these
issues, but that requires us to make a
little bit more progress. I can't
guarantee that we're going to get there,
but right now I feel pretty good about
it. We're not there yet, but we're very
close. We're going to keep on working at
it.
>> So, here's [music] the latest this
morning. The US and Iran reaching a
preliminary deal to extend the ceasefire
by 60 days. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that the president has yet to
agree to the terms. Bloomberg's Jamanna
Veti has been tracking all of this for
us for the last three months. She's in
London now. Jamanna, welcome back to the
program. We're close. How close are we
to signing this thing?
>> Yeah, it seems like we're very close uh
based on our own reporting. And you were
just citing uh Bloomberg sources that we
spoke to alongside Axios, various other
news outlets reporting yesterday that
Iran and the US had agreed to a
framework around thisou that would
eventually work to a full sessation of
hostilities. And I the sequencing here
is important because from what we
understand theou would entail a an
extension to the ceasefire that would be
60 days and then a 30-day window for
Iran to reopen the straits with
unrestricted access to demine the strait
fully. Uh and in return for that the US
would gradually then lift the their own
blockade. Now also in parallel to that
they would then begin the formal
discussions around the nuclear file
which is essentially you know the crux
of the matter here and Treasury
Secretary Scott Basson overnight once
again reiterating what President Trump's
red lines are and he said that
ultimately we have to uh go back to a
situation where there is free flowing of
vessels going through the straight of
Hormos but then in addition to that Iran
have to somehow either destroy or agree
to give up their uh highlyenriched
stockpile of uranium and commit to not
uh building a nuclear weapon. So, back
to the same issues that we were
discussing pre-war, but those are
President Trump's red lines. As you say,
we have not yet got full signoff from
President Trump. We don't know. The ball
is in his court right now. Uh the
Iranian President Masoud Peskan posting
on X that he in return is committed to
diplomacy. So, there has been a huge
diplomatic push over the last couple of
days. And one thing that I would say is
slightly different from earlier attempts
is this time around you have a big push
coming through from Gulf Arab states as
well. Qatar have played a huge role in
mediation efforts to get this across the
line.
>> I think we're all wondering if you timed
it this way. Jamanna last day at work
before maternity leave wrapping up the
deal between the US and Iran. Did you
time it this way?
>> Yeah, I mean she's it does feel like she
got great timing. She left the Middle
East. She's, you know, she's going to go
on maternity leave and maybe the war's
going to end.
>> Hey Jamanna, congratulations and thanks
for all the hard work. We appreciate it.
We'll see you in about 6 months time.
Best of luck and all our love to
Jamaanna and her family. To build on
this conversation, the former deputy
national security adviser, Victoria
Coat, writing the following. This is
when we keep the pressure on. We make
sure we get to the good deal the
president outlined. I think we're going
to see a tremendous drop in energy
prices very very quickly. Victoria joins
us now for more. Victoria, welcome to
the program and welcome back, of course.
Can you define for us what is a good
deal? What does good look like in this
moment? Well, good morning, Jonathan,
and best wishes to Jimama. That's really
wonderful news. U I think what we want
to see here is a verifiable deal to get
to the president's red line, which is no
nuclear weapon for Iran. That's the
basic premise under which this entire
action has been taken. This is an
intolerable threat to the American
people. We've seen how the Iranians
behave. Too much of a chance they would
use a nuclear weapon if they got one.
And they've been pursuing one now for
about 20 years. So it had to end. So
that deal where they they give up the
nuclear dust then they also uh open up
the straight of hormuz they stop holding
the global economy hostage which is what
they've been trying to do. You know we
get that energy flowing freely again
then and we don't give them sanctions
relief in advance of that. That's a good
deal. That is what keeps the American
people safe. Victoria, the New York
Times has reporting that there's this
idea of a post-war investment fund, and
one diplomat put it at $300 billion.
Does that sound right from a president
that has continuously gone after the
Obama administration for the JCPOA and
the relief the regime got?
>> Well, I think this is a a separate
issue, Amry. I mean, I think after the
war, the rebuilding of Iran will be of
great interest to a number of investors
if they have leadership that is in any
way reasonable and normal. That was the
problem with the JCPOA because if you
remember the the the Obama
administration really leaned in to
trying to pressure uh American companies
and European companies into investing in
Iran and nobody would do it because
money essentially is a coward. They you
don't want to go into a dangerous
situation with an irrational regime. So
all of that, you know, is would be on
the table. It would be hugely lucrative
to rebuild Iran. I would love to have
that happen under normal circumstances,
but they would have to have very very
different leadership to make that.
>> But there were companies that decided to
go in like Total Energy and some of
these other companies and the regime has
is intact right now. So, we'd be giving
money to the same sort of people. No,
>> I I just don't think it's it's viable
under this regime. I mean, we we tracked
what what went in under the JCPOA and
that was dimminimous. I mean, there were
a couple of Chinese companies that went
in, but the that was not the inflow of
investment that Iran anticipated would
come from that deal. And I think those
circumstances would still be in place.
If you have a hostile regime, you don't
have the rule of law, you have the
arbitrary cutting off of the internet,
shutting down of the stock market, all
the things they've done over the last 90
days. You know, it's just very hard for
me to see this this massive investment
happening under those circumstances.
What are the obstacles, Victoria, for
potentially President Trump not signing
off on this deal?
>> Well, I think it would be if the
Iranians can't organize themselves to
commit to the terms. And that's the
other problem we have here is the
leadership is quite fra fractured. I
think it's interesting that President
Pazashkian is, you know, coming out with
statements that he's committed to
diplomacy. If he can actually make a
decision, if he has the the power to do
that, you know, that's encouraging. But
we have to wonder what the IRGC is up
to, whether they're going to continue
trying to mine the straight of Hormutes,
whether they're going to continue to try
to uh fire off missiles at partners and
allies like Kuwait. So, so I think the
president rightly has time on his side.
He is showing clearly he's not desperate
for a deal. He's not chasing after the
Iranians. I think he's letting them
chase after him.
>> Victoria, appreciate it. Watch this
space. We'll catch up more. No doubt in
the next week or so the former deputy
national security adviser Victoria Coats
on the latest in the Middle East. I want
to be very careful not to define whether
this deal is good or not based on what
happens with crude. We talked about the
word agnostic yesterday. This market in
the short term at least incredibly
agnostic to why crude is flowing or not.
It doesn't care what the deal looks
like. Just get the energy moving through
the straight. We achieve that great news
in the short term. Over the longer term,
then you get to talk about the details
and the nuance of that and then we can
talk about whether it's a good deal or
not. Yeah, Victoria was saying money is
a coward, which is a line that I wrote
down. Money right now is not necessarily
good or bad, virtuous or not virtuous
when it's taking a look at the nuts and
bolts of is oil flowing. And
essentially, that's the vote that you're
[music] keep seeing right now in
markets.
>> And we've got another boost, another
pillar, the main pillar, the main engine
of this equity market is tech. Up next,
Angelo Zeno of CFR following Dell's
blockbuster earnings report. That stock
in the pre-market absolutely flying.
Let's start with crude. Good place to
start. Crude down this morning, down on
the week, [music] down on the month.
We're negative by 1% on both WTI and
Bren. Let's think [music] about where
we've been over the last 3 months or so.
The straight off has been closed for 3
months. Crude over that period is up by
more [music] than 30%. Check out the
bond market. Change in two-year bond
yields. Two-year yields at the front end
of the curve. Higher over that period
[music] by more than 60 basis points.
So, you've got crude higher, you've got
yields higher. All of this [music] over
the last 3 months or so. And you'd
think, okay, well, equity markets must
be getting crushed all-time highs over
the same period. [music] The S&P is up
by 10%. The NASDAQ is up by more than
20. the chip stocks, the semiconductor
index, Philadelphia, the one we often
say, up by more than 50% over the same
period.
>> It's a really important point because it
really raises two tensions right now
that need to be resolved. Either the
stock market, the bond market, [music]
and the crude market are on completely
different pages as far as ramifications
or this economy has changed
fundamentally. And you heard Alberto
Rusm [music] of the St. Louis Fed talk
about this the potentially the neutral
rate is significantly higher and
potentially we're talking about a much
faster growth economy in an AI world
[music] that is independent uh from
rates that we're seeing at these levels.
That is a reality that poses a real
issue for the Fed and frankly for
markets in terms of what inflation
really looks like and how [music] fast
growth can contain.
>> Do you know what energy stocks have done
over the same period? Down 1% on the
S&P. Who would have made these calls at
the start of March? I [music] mean to
let you know I mean honestly I I came in
this morning and I was thinking to
myself I might as well have slept
through the month because at a certain
point you can't predict what actually
[music] was going to happen based on the
facts and the headlines.
>> Amazing amazing three months 3 hours
away from the cash open. Let's get you
some single names some morning movers.
Yhira has more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We are seeing a massive upside
move in Dell shares. they are soaring
nearly [music] 40% in the pre-market
after the company raised its fullear
outlook and said it [music] expects AI
server revenue to reach $60 billion
[music] next year and it's not just AI
servers uh Dell also saying that demand
[music] for its traditional CPU powered
servers is also taking off helping to
justify that this [music] is broad-based
and sustainable so that is helping to
lift peers with shares [music] of HPE
and super micro also soaring turning to
the PC maker HP, those shares are rising
5 a.5% [music] in the pre-market as the
company benefits from a wave of PC
upgrades as companies uh look to take
advantage of AI. But that demand of
course is [music] coming with a cost
with HP warning of rising memory costs
that [music] is starting to crimp
profits. So while the profit outlook did
come in ahead of estimates, it did miss
the [music] most bullish projections on
Wall Street. And we end on GAP, those
shares absolutely plunging, down [music]
uh 16.8%
in the pre-market after it cut its
fullear [music] outlook. Uh a setback
for CEO Richard Dixon as he tries to
turn around [music] uh this math, this
sprawling retailer. The notable miss
came from Old Navy, which makes up about
[music] 60% of um the company's sales.
And Dixon is not taking the out. He is
not blaming the consumer. He says the
company simply did not get the fashion
assortment right when it came to key
seasonal categories. [music] John
>> Yhara, thank you. That's leadership.
Love that. You're catching up with him
later. I think that's great. It's easy
to blame what's happening with energy.
Easy to say the consumer squeeze. Just
say we got it wrong. Execution. [music]
That's what it comes down to.
>> It comes down to dresses that were not
at the right price point for the value
they were getting. That's how he phrased
it. And [music] potentially Athleta.
What's interesting is it's not just
them, right? We also saw this at other
stores also saying they had misses
whether it [music] was uh some of the
other competitors because of style, not
necessarily the economy. It's an
interesting kind of distinction. [music]
Does it give them more potential to beat
on the second half of this year or is it
just a reality check? Fashions move very
quickly. People in the Insta [music]
era are uh have a very different
experience of fashion.
>> Credit to him. You'll be catching up
with him a little bit later this
morning. Look out for that. Rammo
catching [music] up with the GAP CEO
later on this morning. On our radar this
morning, the US and Iran reaching a
tentative deal to extend the ceasefire
by 60 days. Key sticking points
remaining unsettled, including the
straight of former MER and Iran's
nuclear program. The president
reportedly taken a few days to consider
it. Elsewhere, SpaceX is cutting its
valuation target for its highly
anticipated IPO. Sources telling
Bloomberg the company it's now aiming
for a $1.8 trillion valuation, down from
above 2 trillion. still on track for the
biggest IPO in history. And finally,
Anthropic raising a fresh $65 billion in
its latest funding round, lifting its
valuation to $965 billion. Google and
Amazon each contributing several billion
dollars with Anthropic passing its rival
OpenAI's valuation for the first time.
>> The amount of money here is
mindboggling. Talk about $65 billion of
money raised. If you look at SpaceX,
which is going to have a valuation of
$1.8 trillion according to the latest
reporting, as you were just saying, they
raised $75 billion. Their goal is to
raise $75 billion in net equity
offering. The amount of money being
raised and poured into these companies
that keep beating and accelerating on
earnings is mind-boggling. Here are the
hang-ups. And you can see this
nervousness starting to percolate into
the conversation. What if companies are
sick of paying so much for some of these
services? What if companies start to
push back and say, "You know what? You
could stop vibe coding your kids
homework. Maybe don't play around.
Create some sort of meme that's going to
go on X. Maybe pull back unless you can
prove its productivity. Does that pose a
threat to the meteoric rise you've seen
in some of these companies?
>> And what's interesting is these
companies have now become really part of
the US government, not just in defense
industrial base, but also at least when
it comes to Anthropic, they're for the
moment being allowed to use across other
agencies. We talked about Dell earlier.
They inked something with the Pentagon,
which is why I find it so interesting
that Anthropic right now is the most
valuable AI company. Even though the
Pentagon says it is a supply chain risk,
a designation you would see for
something like a Huawei.
>> You know, it's funny, not just the US
government increasing, they are the US
economy. You mentioned Dow. Let's talk
about Dow soaring in pre-market trading
after raising its fullear guidance. The
CEO, David Kennedy, the CFO, telling
Bloomberg that confidence and demand for
its service continues to grow.
It's a tremendous start to the quarter
obviously in the year ahead built on
real durable and accelerating globally
the amount of infrastructure that's
needed out there. So really more
broad-based and you know AI demand if
you like beyond the GPU in terms of the
opportunities ahead.
>> Mandep Singh of Bloomberg Intelligence
joins us now for more. Mandep the move
is amazing. The numbers are ridiculous.
The price gap, the gap up we're seeing
this morning in dollar terms is more
than what the stock was trading at at
the start of the year. Matt Deep, can
you just put that into perspective for
us? What kind of valuations are these
companies at right now compared to where
they were to start the year?
>> Look, I mean, when we uh track the capex
expectations from the start of the year
to now, uh they've gone up almost, you
know, 30 40%. And so from that
perspective uh you know everyone
believes now that the normalized capex
for cloud companies it used to be around
$200 billion it's probably north of $500
billion and uh you know this year we are
talking about maybe uh potentially
trillion dollars in capex from the
hyperscalers. So when you map the
trickle down of that capex to server
makers like Dell, it doesn't surprise me
that they beat their estimates by 20%.
because you know uh the analysts didn't
keep up with uh you know the all the uh
positive revisions that we are seeing in
the capex and uh right now you're seeing
that really materialize in a big way
across the board you know whether it's
memory names server names GPU names and
and that's the source of that is all the
capex increases that we are talking
about here
>> mand they're the m major beneficiaries
we can pick out the bottleneck pick out
the names you can see these moonshots
here there and everywhere is there any
push back to the capex any push
whatsoever any weakness emerging that's
notable for you? I mean look the
technology is quite expensive as you
guys are alluding to before like for
some of the tasks it doesn't make sense
because you know at the end of the day
uh no one wants to take a margin hit
Jensen says I want to maintain my mid70%
gross margin memory guys are raising
prices the cloud companies are
maintaining their costs and and you know
they don't want to take a margin hit so
who ends up paying the price for this
compute which is quite expensive and I
think it's going to be that end customer
and at some point they will realize you
know for certain tasks it doesn't make
sense to use AI. Uh we haven't reached
that point yet. We are right now in that
point where everyone wants to hold
compute. They want to make sure they're
not short of compute in any way. There
is double ordering going on but at some
point we will be talking about that in
terms of what is rational, what is
normalized and that's when you know
things will start to temper down.
>> Mandep it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you sir. Mandep Singh there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. To build on
this, Angelo Zeno of CFR writing, "We
continue to have a positive fundamental
outlook on semiconductors and hardware
driven by the AI infrastructure buildout
and massive earnings power." Angelo
joins us now for more. Angelo, I just
hear the same thing repeatedly,
earnings, earnings, earnings. Is there a
risk of normalizing the irrational, so
to speak, given the moonshots we're
seeing developing across single names at
the moment?
>> Yeah. So John, and thanks for having me.
So when we think about, I guess, you
know, the the earnings power in this
market, I think it's, you know, we're
clearly seeing some sort of a reset
higher, right, in terms of just the
magnitude of the capex increases we're
seeing from these hyperscalers. And I
think right now the street's really
trying to sniff out where the greatest
earnings power is coming from. And I
think we've got a pretty good sense here
just going through Q1 earning season of
where that earnings power is coming
from. and and obviously you've seen you
know the respective move in those um
stock prices given the fact that you're
seeing you know pricing increasing from
increases from those companies and and
that's also translating to that that
higher earnings power I would say you
know as you kind of look ahead um we
think there is some sustainability or we
do think there is sustainability in
terms of the reset higher in from these
hyperscalers and as a result um you've
got that sustainability once you kind of
get this leg up in the earnings power
but Maybe to your point in terms of the
normalization or or um earnings growth
normalization that's going to start
playing itself out probably as you go
into 2027 and 2028 because you're not
going to be able to have these
hyperscalers continue to increase capex
on 100% basis yearover of year. But
you'll probably be able to continue at
least in 27 and into 28 see increases of
let's call it 25 to 30% as long as you
get that you know cash flow from
operations continue to grow which at
this point in time continues to be our
base case.
>> The issue for a lot of people is that
companies won't continue to pay these
massive billion dollar costs for the AI
tools that they're getting unless they
can prove some productivity. And we're
getting to that point increasingly where
executives are pushing back and saying
please stop just experimenting with it.
start actually using it to prove why
it's worth its money. At what point do
you have to see the real economy catch
up a bit to some of these big tech
behemoths in order to keep the street
going?
>> Yeah, I mean, listen, I I think we've
actually we we're starting to see some
of the AI monetization themes play
itself out, which is really what's
what's getting the the market excited at
this point in time, right? I think you
look at an anthropic um and you you know
potentially looking at a $50 billion run
rate by you know in June on an ARR
perspective and continuing to go up. Um
really at this point in time only
limited by their compute. Um but we're
seeing the use cases we're seeing
greater uh we're seeing a lot of these
uh pilot um use cases go into AI
production mode. I mean, you just saw uh
Salesforce report this week and you kind
of see the usage rates really um go up
uh significantly just on a quarter over
quarter basis. We think that continues
into the second half of this year. So,
enterprises are adopting this stuff.
you're seeing those use cases go up and
as a result as long as you know we
continue to see what we're seeing from a
company like Anthropic and only you know
continue to be limited by the compute
availability um I think you know this AI
infrastructure build theme continues to
work here
>> is Anthropic eating open AI's lunch
>> it looks like it right um I mean you
kind of look at the headlines at this
point in time you know clearly it seems
like Anthropic was right to focus almost
exclusively on the enterprise side and
um you kind of look at just the tools
that they've come out with at this point
in time um the focus more on security.
I'd say I'd say you kind of look at at
where u the enterprise space is really
gravitating to and it looks like yeah I
mean anthropic is definitely winning
here over the last kind of two to three
quarters and again I mean it's still
early days and I wouldn't necessarily
count open AAI out but um at least at
this point in time yeah I I think uh I
think an anthropic's been the clear
winner here over the last couple of
quarters
>> that's certainly the direction of travel
at the moment Angelo thank you Angelo
Zeno there of CFR to Angelo's Let's not
draw any conclusions too quickly. Last
year, people counted Alphabet out and
look at Alphabet over the last 12
months. But that's certainly the
direction of travel at the moment.
>> Yeah, Tachbt really skyrocketed the
whole story of AI and open and uh Open
AI was the ring leader. Now all of a
sudden, Gemini is a real competitor and
their professional tools, their security
tools haven't kept pace, at least not in
the public's eye with Anthropic.
>> That's the latest on tech. Let's get you
the latest on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has
more. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Apollo and
Blackstone working to bring additional
investors into a roughly $ 36 billion
debt financing deal to help Anthropic
build out its AI infrastructure. The
debt will be used to purchase Google's
custom [music] chips as Anthropic races
to line up that IPO later this year.
Blue Origin's new Glenn rocket exploded
in a massive fireball during a test on a
Florida launchpad. [music] AI personnel,
all personnel, have been accounted for
and are safe according to the company.
CEO Jeff Bezos says the cause of the
explosion is under investigation.
[music]
Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey
says allowing inflation to run above the
central bank's 2% target is justified.
[music]
Speaking at the RekuC economic
conference, he cited uncertainty about
Iran's war and the impact on the
economy. That's your bit brief. John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. I want to get in
on this conference next year. Reikovic
Iceland. Yeah,
>> everyone [music] seems to be there.
Bremo. Happening right now is the Kansas
City Fed President Jeff Smith. He's
speaking [music] at that conference in
Iceland. He said just moments ago, the
Fed must signal a commitment to price
stability, which is intriguing because
they've missed [music] their target for
much of the last 5 years and still
retain an easing bias. So, is that going
to change in the next few weeks,
>> but it seems like uh there is not
there's not an incredible ground swell
to support the easing bias. Whether they
actually have an inclination to hike is
another story and we have heard [music]
a bunch of Fed speak raising questions
about how high the bar to actually hike
is.
>> Up next on the program is a rate hike on
[music] the table.
>> We're above target on inflation and so
uh the possibility or probability that
we might consider an interest rate
[music] increase in the future I think
has to be greater than zero.
>> Up next we'll catch up with Lindseay
Rosner of Goldman Sachs live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Equity futures right now up a [music]
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. Another
close at alltime highs in Thursday's
session. Friday morning up another tenth
on the NASDAQ. In the bond market,
yields behaving [music] twos, tens, 30s,
tens over the previous six sessions.
Lower yields this morning just about
unchanged. [music] 10s at 444,
encouraged by a big move down on crude
on the week and on the month. Down on
the [music] week by about 10% on the
month, down hard. The biggest monthly
decline potentially since 2020.
>> Although you're not seeing the [music]
commensurate move in bonds that you
would expect. Should you really buy
that? This is a sustainable story. So
either the bond market saying we don't
buy it or the bond market saying we
don't care. We're focusing on other
things because guess what? Volatility
has gone to sleep and we're looking at a
longerterm story that looks a bit more
inflationary [music]
and stably so.
>> And maybe not just about energy. And I
think you're touching on the right theme
right now. Maybe this [music] goes
beyond energy. And maybe this story
continues a conversation this Fed needs
to have about just what neutral might be
in this new regime at the Federal
Reserve
>> and whether AI really is the
disinflationary force that everybody
says it's [music] going to be.
>> Under Sennis this morning, is a rate
hike on the table?
we're above target on inflation and
[music] so uh the possibility or
probability that we might consider an
interest rate increase in the future I
think has to be greater than zero. There
is a scenario where inflation uh remains
high. There's no disinflation in the
next quarter or two and in that scenario
the economy will probably require uh a
hike. [music] So here's the latest this
morning. Inflation concerns fueling
growing warnings from Fed officials.
Lindsay Rosner of Goldman Sachs writing
the Fed's focus for the time being is
likely to remain squarely on policing
the remnants of tariff pass through and
new shock from the conflict in the
Middle East. Lindsay joins us now for
more. Lindsay, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Thank you.
>> Let's start with that bar. How high is
that bar for a rate hike at this Fed?
>> Yeah, I I do think it's high. Um they
have all the time in the world to wait.
I don't think there's an expectation
that it's next meeting or the meeting
after that that they need to do
anything. I think the market's gotten
very comfortable with a hold for now.
Um, but hiking, as we experienced in
2022, didn't go so well. So, I think
back to how high the bar is. Like, we
kind of don't want to repeat the
mistakes of the past and thinking that
hiking somehow changes how many boats go
through the straight. It just doesn't.
>> There's something that you said about
this not being the precoid playbook that
things have changed. Stay invested. Does
that line apply right now?
>> It absolutely applies. I mean, just
think back. Uh you you started off with
a a few stats of just how quickly we've
moved, how much oil has moved lower, how
much yields have now moved lower off of
seeing the highs that we hadn't seen in
in a very long time. Um you you can't
play these zigs and zags. It's too hard
to move a total portfolio. Um I'm happy
to say we did add some duration when we
got past that 5% mark. That was a good
move, but to think that you can move
your portfolio that quickly, it just
doesn't work anymore. So you're supposed
to stay invested. And when I look at we
look at the Bloomberg Barkclays A as a
good proxy for what's going on in fixed
income. There were moments in there over
the past month that we had a little bit
negative total return for the year.
We're back to positive. So just stay
involved and look how your equities have
done.
>> Is that the reason why volatility is
essentially gone to sleep? Is everybody
else just asleep because ultimately it
hasn't paid to move around too much?
>> Yeah, I I think that's a good point. It
it really hasn't. The the transaction
cost, the friction would just chop you
up, chop up your total returns. I think
volatility has also come down because if
you look at um actual delivered right
smooth it out a little bit. It it hasn't
been that much and that's where that
number comes from. If you look at the
move index or if you look at the VIX um
specifically on equities I mean we've
just marched and when you march in that
kind of movement that's not really
volatile right that's the rate that you
have an expectation of move. So no
surprise that the VIX is at 16 today.
Right now, I'm looking at where risk
could potentially be building because
that's what I do in my free time. And
I'm thinking if it's not necessarily in
the bond market based on the move and
based on uh what a lot of people are
saying, the investment grade bond market
looks like it's increasingly levered
both to the duration story as well as
the AI story. Uh and I just wonder how
nervous that's getting people given how
narrow spreads have gotten.
>> You're right. It is levered to the AI
story, the hyperscalers, tremendous
amount of issuance this year, continue
our expectation is a tremendous amount
of issuance next year and by the way the
year after that that it's not ending.
Um, I think it goes back to just
thinking about all-in yields and those
all-in yields. Maybe those spreads are
tight, but those all-in yields are more
attractive than anything we've seen in a
while. So, it's important to mind what
is happening and that's why I think
going forward there can be some
opportunity for dispersion and that you
want to make sure you've got the right
names.
>> Can we go back to your comment on a hike
will not open up boats to go through the
straight of hormones. Right. So, if the
Fed were to hike, they would really need
to see inflation entrenched elsewhere.
Are you seeing that? Are you seeing it
sticky elsewhere?
>> No, we're we're really not. I think
there's interesting if you unpack the
numbers like we just got PCE which is
what the Fed likes to look at and one
thing that seemed to pop up was housing.
Um housing looks like it was a big move
you know month overmonth. Well got to
remember housing comes in at a six-month
clip. 6 months ago was October and the
government was shut down. So the reading
for housing literally was zero because
there was no reading. So I I think if
you really unpack the numbers and don't
get surprised by the top, you'll
actually find that inflation is actually
benign and fine right now.
>> You said something interesting about all
in yields. I just want to follow up on
that. It's a conversation we've had a
few times on this program. So you've got
spreads tight, all in yields high.
>> So you've got a big component of that is
the risk-f free and then on top of that
is the the credit risk. Okay. But this
isn't interesting to people. This is I'm
intrigued by that. Why are people more
intrigued by the all-in yield that you
get from a corporate than this big fat
risk-free rate that you get from a
sovereign?
>> Yeah, so the all-in yield is is what you
eat. It's what you take home. Uh it is
predominantly to your point from the
risk-free rate. Uh with spreads being so
tight, what would concern you is if you
feel like that story would change or
there's something out there that would
cause spreads to widen. We just don't
see it. We just went through a
remarkable earning season as you were
talking about earlier in the program. uh
anyone who wants to issue right now, not
a problem. People are lined up out the
door. Uh so it's just a solid market
right now and the economy is in a good
spot. We are of course predicting and
and trying to forecast let's say oil
stays in this precarious place and the
tenative deal doesn't work out. What
could that possibly mean? We think that
shaves maybe a half a percent in a less
nefarious scenario off of GDP. Maybe at
worst in a severe scenario of no oil
through the straight for a continued
period of time it shades 1%. We think
that's a small probability on the ladder
and in general we're in a good space
that we can weather. I mean you just saw
that the consumer keeps consuming that
came out yesterday as well.
>> Lindsay it's good to see you appreciate
it as always. Lindsay Rosner there of
Goldman Sachs. Lindsay said it. I'm
always looking for potential capital
constraints. Right. Where's the push
back? Not seeing it. Anthropic still
raising money. They're about to go for
an IPO. They probably don't need to.
just raised 65 billion dollars in
private markets. So equity side of
things is fine. Credit side of things,
all that issuance has come to markets
got away just fine. I don't see any push
back or capital constraints at least not
yet.
>> So I was looking at that extra yield
over the risk-free rate and risk-free
with an asterisk around it. Well,
precisely that's great. Yeah, of course.
Uh is 72 basis points, right? So it's
less than a percentage point of extra
yield.
>> Given the fact that that's attractive to
pick that up over the risk-free makes me
ask the question, who would you rather
lend to, Microsoft [music] or the US
government? And suddenly are people
saying actually Microsoft doesn't look
so bad.
>> Tells me more about the sovereign than
it does the [music] corporate.
Absolutely. At least for now at least.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Alexman of Parkley's the Chevron
CEO. Mike Worth joins us as well.
Looking forward to that conversation.
All of that in the next hour.
Don't get too caught up in the
headlines. Stay focused on the data.
>> The real problem, it's inflation.
>> We are [music] moving in the wrong
direction away from 2%.
>> The inflation data has been very hot and
very sticky.
>> The outlook for inflation has become
much more uncertain [music] than it was.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
on a 6-day [music] winning streak on the
S&P about to make it week nine. Nine
weeks of gains on the S&P 500 record
highs up another tenth of 1% this
morning on the S&P [music] on the NASDAQ
up by 0.13 in the bond market. Yields
have been declining all week through to
this morning. 10's unchanged 44473
encouraged by crude declining down on
the week by something like [music] 10%
on the month by close to 20. Brent 92
WTI 87.
>> The move to me highlights how much
people want to move on. And I know that
I sound like a broken record. Maybe I'm
just projecting. But ultimately, it
seems like even before we get this deal
signed, people are embracing it and
saying it's wonderful. Even though there
are some serious sticking points right
now, I think it's interesting after
Lindsay [music] Rosner was speaking. It
makes me want to go home and go to
sleep. Not because I'm tired, but
because ultimately any kind of trading
has not benefited anyone on real news.
And that's the reason why you're seeing
volatility indexes actually come down to
the extent that they're going up in the
equity market. It's because people can't
get upside quickly enough. It's not
because people are worried about the
downside. So people are looking at AI,
they're looking at earnings, looking at
the likelihood of a deal, and they're
saying bye and then have a nice weekend.
Well, if we're on the precipice of a
deal, that of course is going to be good
news. But then the real work starts.
Remember the JCPOA took 20 months,
basically two years to negotiate.
[music]
So this is going to be a very long
timeline. On top of that though, one
good news that the Treasury Secretary
yesterday briefing reporters said
[music] that 2,000 ships are waiting to
come out of the Gulf. So if the if the
if the Stra Moose was actually [music]
going to open very quickly, you're going
to see barrels hit the market.
>> It's been closed for 3 months. NASDAQ's
up 20%. Semis are up by more than 50.
Dow doesn't care.
>> That's a different story, Jonathan.
Earnings, earnings, earnings.
>> Dow doesn't care. down in the pre-market
right now up by 37%
after absolutely crushing analyst
estimates after the close yesterday.
>> The beats are sort of shocking. It's one
thing to beat by, you know, $10 million
or even hundred million, but you start
beating by $27 billion in terms of your
expectation for the fullear earnings. It
gives you a sense of why people are
changing their expectation, their
forward look of the valuation of this
company. Dell makes things like the
monitors that you put in your homes not
exactly sexy and hot. Although AI has
been really the driver given the fact
that they are a server provider and that
has been sort of their moonshot right
now in the AI world. The gains that
we've seen are incomprehensible and I
just wonder how long companies want to
keep paying for this and right now the
answer is they want to keep paying for
it and then add to that and that's the
reason why people are betting on this
story.
>> I'm just laughing repeatedly at the
dollar move in the pre-market on that
stock. The lower of the year is 111.
It's up by more than that in the
pre-market. It's crazy the amount of
market cap these companies are adding
just in single sessions off the back of
earnings that analysts can't keep up
with at the moment.
>> That's the key. The fact that analysts
cannot even comprehend how much these
companies are making. The idea that
their fullear revenue [music] will end
for for 2027 will be $167 billion versus
the $140 billion estimate gives you
[music] a sense of just how much they're
outperforming.
>> You know what makes me nervous? I keep
asking the same question. What's the
bare case? Just offer me a credible bare
case right now. And everyone's like,
"Eh, no, not got one." Earnings, right?
That makes me a little bit nervous.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, I'm always nervous
right now. That's very I've always got a
company when I start feeling that way.
>> There there always is a sense that, you
know, inflation [music] is one of them.
A rate hike if they actually were to
execute them. What happens if companies
actually stop spending as much [music]
as they have been? There are a bunch of
different cases as
>> coming up this hour. Yeah, that's one.
Can think of some [music] others. Alex
Arman of Barclays as stocks push towards
a ninth week of gains. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us too with the US Iran
peace deal on the table. Plus, we'll
catch up with the Chevron CEO Mike Worth
looking forward to this with crude on
track for its biggest monthly decline
since 2020. We begin this hour with
stocks trading at record highs. Alexman
of Barclay's writing, there is no
obvious hard negative catalyst on the
horizon that would unequivocally wrong
foot bullish investors at present. Alex
joins us now for more. Alex, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> I knew that was coming, which is why I
said it. So, let's get into it. Does
that make you nervous? Well, I think
that statement was taken out of context
because actually
>> give us some more context then
>> that was part of actually a relatively a
cautious note if you actually recall and
that that was effectively within the
context of yes that that all investors
that we talk to say but the earnings um
but but the peace deal or or the
protracted ceasefire whatever it may be
and yet we run a sort of a quantitive
framework to try and sort of at least
provide a sanity check to the path of
equities near-term and right now that's
basically flashing one of the most
cautious readings that we've seen since
the summer of 2024 and if you remember
what happened we had a pretty
precipitous 10 12% drop in equities then
>> conversations that you're having with
clients at the moment what do they sound
like are they bowled up as bowled up as
these prices indicate
>> I would I think by definition the fact
that you're having prices move this much
illustrative no is you you don't you
don't have this much larger jump in in
markets if people were positioned as
such however you [clears throat] are
seeing pockets of positioning that's now
clearly adjusted quite dramatically I
think one of one of the biggest
evidences of that is you've had a rise
in this what we call spot vault
correlation. So as the market's going
up, volatility is rising with it and
that's sort of indicative of a chase and
reach for upside to try and adjust that
positioning.
>> What does cautious mean for you? I mean
is it essentially to sell or is it just
to bite your nails and take a long
sleep?
>> Uh I actually our personal view is to
hedge. So right now what's happened is
because those call options because the
reach for upside has been so dramatic,
the puts are trading actually very
cheap. So for context, if you were to
just look at a sway of of different
indices in the US market right now,
whether it's uh uh you know, obviously
NASDAQ and and Russell and S&P, but also
looking at things like semiconductors
and even like Korea and the ETF, and to
sort of hypothetically say, all right,
let's have let's say we had a 50%
retracement of that move that we just
had. Don't think that's the base case,
but just to sort of think about it, how
much would that cost to protect if you
to buy a put at STR at that? And right
now it's incredibly cheap for S&P for
example that would be equivalent to
maybe a five six% move something like
that. It would cost you only around
about 13 basis points to to to protect
all the way out to July. So we're
effectively advocating say like you
you've got a lot of gains hopefully and
it's actually a good opportunity. You
should be hedging when you can not when
you have to.
>> It's interesting how you hedge because
the potential risks are kind of on polar
opposites of the extreme. We could
either have a slowdown in the economy,
which we could see next week with the
jobs data, or you could get some sort of
reaceleration that would prompt the Fed
to hike rates, which would be another uh
scenario on the opposite side. Which is
the more important scenario to hedge
against in your view?
>> Well, I actually think it's the the
slowdown risk because if you look at the
way the market's pricing right now, the
market's digesting the fact that the
path of the Fed is not clearly
easing bias anymore, right? So if you
look at just you know Fed futures or you
know sofa futures we're pricing in a
hike more than a hike now. So the equity
market I think has processed that. So
it's really the slowdown risk which I
think is the bigger bigger tail right
now.
>> As the equity market tests the new Fed
chair do you think we're going to see a
draw down?
>> So with something we've talked about in
the past uh bit of a loaded question.
We've written about this quite
extensively and and I think the answer
is quite
>> I know what you're going to say. No you
put numbers on this and I think about
it's 12%.
>> Yes. So on average now that's we've
taken data back to the 1930s. So you
know want to sort of maybe make the
argument it's not a comparable
situation. We also have got some
exogenous events in there. For example,
you know when Greenspan came in you had
the the crash within basically a few
months of that. So but even if you rip
those out those sort of real left tail
events you're still looking at a mid mid
to high singledigit draw down within the
first 3 months.
>> Have we got space for a low value rent?
Can I just squeeze one in just on the
Federal Reserve? find it so strange the
way everyone's changed their view of
this Federal Reserve. Now Chairman Pal
has stepped into a governor position and
Kevin Walsh is stepping in. Where was
the criticism of this Fed a month ago
following the meeting when they had the
easing bias they've still got and it
seems like it's ramped up now that
Chairman Pal has stepped aside and Kevin
Walsh is stepping in. I find that kind
of strange. I've got all these different
columns that I've been reading at the
moment. Let's take Bill Dudby and
forgive me Bill for picking out one
name, but the column that he wrote for
Bloomberg Opinion in the last week about
incoming Kevin Walsh and not really
having an argument right now to reduce
interest rates, where were these columns
over the last several months, the last
three months? Where were they? And where
was the push back in the news conference
from the journalist not asking enough
questions about that easing bias, at
least for me, and subsequently to Fed
officials, too. And I think you've
picked up on a really good point and
this is what I'm getting at now. If you
get to interview a Fed official right
now, ask them the question that you
asked earlier this week. Everyone needs
to ask it. Who supported the easing bias
at the Federal Reserve? Because we can't
find anyone that supports it now, just
as Kevin Walsh is about to step into the
seat at the same time chairman Pal was
maintaining it at the last news
conference.
>> To take that a step further, and I think
it's a really valid point, what has
changed between then and now? Have the
inflationary pressures gotten that much
more uh significant? Are we seeing the
earnings coming from companies somehow
shading the view of uh officials or are
they just sort of digesting the public
commentary and chasing the market
activity these are or you know aside
from the political question as well but
that to me you really have to ask how
much has actually changed
>> well I think that the political question
is perhaps the important one people seem
to be more critic critical of Kevin
Walsh before he's even sat in the chair
because of the criticism that came from
the president towards the institution
and they see him as the president's guy
which is why the criticism has ramped up
so much so quickly and they forgot to
question the man who had the job only a
month ago who's been running the Federal
Reserve with inflation running above
target for the last 5 years and I think
people have been wary of criticizing the
man in the seat chairman Pal because he
was taking so much flack from the
president in the white house now I don't
think it's our job to protect the
institution I think there should have
been some kind of critical element to
the questioning of this institution for
the last five years that has been absent
up until now and we know why it's all of
a sudden appeared pretty much
everywhere, including from Fed officials
themselves in the last few weeks.
>> Question for you then. Do you think that
the market move is politically
motivated? Because since that
conference, you have seen two-year
yields go higher and people price in a
greater chance of a rate hike.
>> I don't think the move's political at
all. I think the market's picking up on
where the Federal Reserve is shifting
to, and they're certainly shifting to an
idea where they're more concerned now
about the inflation side of the mandate.
Now, that shift might be political
inside the Federal Reserve itself, and I
can't comment on that. But I don't think
the market's going to be political.
That's not the market's job. The
market's going to price the reality of
where the committee's at. And clearly,
the committee's shifted. Why the
committee has shifted is what I'm trying
to get into.
>> I'd like to ask, Alex, has anything
changed fundamentally with inflation
from then to now. Well, the oil price
and I think people just they don't go
back to this one unique aspect which is
oil prices have gone higher. The the
price of products have gone higher. So
obviously the the derivatives of the oil
price you've got chemical companies that
are trying to pass on their their
pricing. Uh but so I think that has
changed. So whenever people bring up the
inflation narrative I reverse it back
and say that's all well and good but if
oil went back to $70 tomorrow then would
you still have the same same inflation
story that you do today? And they they
usually say, "Oh, yes, because we've got
2,000 ships in in Hormuz that need to
get out. This is going to take nine
months to normalize." But I'm like,
"Well, when we had an oil shock in the
1990s, early 90s, Greenspan, he made a
very specific mention to look through it
then. So, shouldn't we be doing the same
now?" And and people try to compare it
to say 2021,22.
This is nothing like that era. We don't
have the excess saving glut. We don't
have a huge fiscal tailwind. If
anything, we're moving into a fiscal
cliff in the second half of the year.
So, I think if you take the oil
narrative away and bearing in mind the
tariff base effect is rolling off too,
then what are we really left with?
Where's this so-called inflation? And
so, that's kind of where I would push
back to the the narrative right now.
>> Alex, you're going to stick with us. I'm
pleased to say Alex Arman of Barkley
sticking with us to talk about the
latest in the energy market and the
latest in the Middle East. Equity
futures right now positive by a tenth of
1% on the S&P with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. A Russian drone
hit an apartment block in Romania
Friday, causing a fire and injuring two
people. EU President Ursula Vander Lion
saying Moscow's war of aggression had
crossed another line while NATO
condemned Russia's recklessness.
SpaceX adjusted its IPO valuation target
to at least $1.8 trillion from a
previously estimated $2 trillion. The
company is seeking to raise as much as
$75 billion, which would make it the
biggest IPO of all time. It's expected
to start formal marketing as soon as
June 4th.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant
defended the idea of putting President
Donald Trump's face on a specially
issued $250 bill. A 160year-old law bans
current officials or living people from
appearing on American coins or [music]
banknotes. That is your Bloomberg brief.
John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
later this hour. Up next on a program
slow walking the [music] ceasefire.
>> There are a lot of details to work out.
I think we're making progress. We're
getting to a point where we could
potentially sit down and settle these
issues. We're not there yet, but we're
very close. We're going to keep on
working at it. Lex Terendo joins us next
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
Equity
futures firmer here by 0.15% on the S&P
[music] up by 02 on the NASDAQ. If you
return to the bond market, declining all
week yields down every single [music]
day this week with the exception of this
morning until now. We're down almost the
basis point on 10th to 44 encouraged by
crude WTI and [music] Brent. What a move
we've seen lower this week and this
month down by 10% on the week so far.
Brent crude a break of 92 WTI around 87
under surveillance this morning. Slow
walking the ceasefire.
>> There are a lot of details to work out.
I think we're making progress. We're
getting to a point where we could
potentially sit down and settle these
issues, but that requires us to make a
little bit more progress. I can't
guarantee that we're going to get there,
but right now I feel pretty good about
it. We're not there yet, but we're very
close. We're going to keep on working at
it.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US and Iran agreeing to a preliminary
60-day truce extension deal. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that
President Trump has yet to sign up to
the terms. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us from Washington for more.
Tyler, just how close are we to actually
signing this deal?
>> Well, John, at this point, we did hear
from the US Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant yesterday who said that we
perhaps have the quote makings of a
deal, but at this point nothing's final
until their sign off. Though we are
getting indications and signals from
both sides that perhaps they are the
closest that they've been yet to this
potential memorandum of understanding
that would kick off essentially a phased
approach towards ending the conflict.
First we would see this 60-day ceasefire
extension where a reopening of the
straight of Hermuz would be prioritized.
That means no tolls, no harassment and
that Iran would have 30 days to work to
clear any mines in the waterway. But it
comes after just yesterday the US issued
a new warning to Oman saying that any
actors caught facilitating a potential
payment system in the strait would come
under heavy US sanctions as Iran in
recent days has been trying to tighten
its grip over the waterway. But it's our
understanding that once the US sees an
easing of that grip, then the US could
be lifting its naval blockade in
proportion to the straight being
reopened. Once these components are in
place, then we could see those
formalized talks kick off for any
potential curves around Zan's nuclear
program and what happens to that
stockpile of highlyenriched uranium.
Perhaps some of our biggest questions at
the moment, but we have to wait for that
phase of talks to begin. John, in a post
on X overnight, Iranian state media said
nothing has been formalized quite yet.
But in perhaps one sign viewed as uh
optimism here, we did see some comments
from the country's president who did say
that Iran at this point is committed
towards diplomacy.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Down in Washington DC. Just
want to pick up on a few of Tyler's
words there. West Israel on all of this
right now.
>> Quiet at the moment, but the issue is
that they are still going after
Hezbollah in Lebanon and for the
Iranians that is going to be a red line
when it comes to negotiating
at minimum the longer term deal. but
potentially even opening up the straight
of her moose.
>> Alex Barkley still with us around the
table. Alex, question. Tech has ripped
despite the Middle East or because of
the Middle East.
>> Both because you've got the earnings
dynamic which is despite the Middle
East. The AI spend is happening agnostic
of what's happening with the oil price.
because of the Middle East a lot of
money went into rest of world January
February remember then as soon as March
triggered all that money flowed back
into the US as a sort of a energy
exporter safe haven and naturally it's
going to migrate towards where the
earnings provisions are
>> can we deal with the because now what
happens to that leg of the trade if this
is addressed is that a risk factor for
tech
>> so the answer is I think yes tactically
and that's really the backbone of why
we're a little bit cautious analog here
is like vaccine Okay, if you remember
November 2020, everyone knew it was
coming. Everyone knew of a a a there was
going to be therapeutics and there was
going to be a solution, but no one
wanted to deploy units of risk until it
was actually nailed on. So, here we
we're hearing, oh, we're getting closer.
We're clearing closer, but there's still
a a reticence and trepidation to deploy
risk units amongst long short managers
into other parts of the market, the
consumer, especially oil sensitive parts
until that has been rubber stamped. And
I think when it does, you could see the
pretty violent rotation.
>> Energy prices up, gasoline prices up.
Why haven't energy companies ripped?
John and Lisa were talking about this
earlier.
>> That's a very good question. And I think
I mean they they still have ripped. They
has haven't I mean if I'm not mistaken,
the energy sector is up to 30 odd
percent or so. Uh but I think it's more
a function of the fact that again
there's this anticipation of what the
forward curve of oil prices are going to
do. Still expectation of a of a
resolution. Let's not forget we could be
looking at a year to 18 months from now
where UAE has bypassed a lot of their
issues in terms of building new
pipelines as well as increasing their
flow. Now they're out of OPEC. We're
still producing as a country 13 14
million barrels a day. Could we actually
end up with a situation two years from
now where we've worked around the
Straits of Hormuz issue and we're
dealing with another energy glut and I
think that's also many equity is
supposed to be long longdated forwards
at the end of the day. So I think some
of that's at play too. So, you're not
concerned if this takes 20 months the
way the JCPOA took?
>> I'm definitely concerned. And again, I I
mean, I think that
>> Well, no, you're you're offering uh you
know, offramp.
>> I think the point you're making about
the potential to just circumvented the
whole thing is pretty interesting. I
mean, how many how many other east west
pipelines like the one in Saudi Arabia
is going to be built now over the next
several years to circumvent the whole
thing to just to take this issue off the
table?
>> A lot. Because now structurally the
region has changed and everyone realizes
that Iran could just use the straight of
Hermoose as leverage and the Iranians
say that they will be charging a toll.
So why not put your money to work
elsewhere?
>> Do you think we have an inflation
problem above and beyond just this very
narrow conversation we're having right
now which is in energy at least has been
talking about this too. Does the story
go away just because the energy story
does? Do we still have to focus on a
potential for higher above target
inflation and higher rates too? I think
we may have to focus on it. Again,
partly as a function of what's happened
with tariffs, partly as a function with
certain supply chain bottlenecks that
are going to take a decent amount of
time to resolve. This isn't just about
energy. It's about, you know, the
chemical sector. It's about sulfuric
acid which feeds into into leeching for
copper and so on and so forth. There
there are all other aspects which I do
think matter enormously and they will
take time to resolve. And I think that's
effectively where the market's adjusted
to. It's sort of saying, okay, you know
what, economic growth is okay. We're
getting an 80 basis point tailwind from
from AI spend this year. We're probably
going to get another 30 to 40 basis
point from AI tailwind next year. So, if
the economic growth is okay and the
inflation is still running above target,
then actually we're kind of happy with
rates where they are right now
>> which is why people have continued to uh
go into even consumer cyclicals on the
margins as you see this move because
they do believe that you're going to see
an acceleration in tandem with an
acceleration in inflation. I just wonder
how concerned you are about corporate
America paying these massive bills for
AI. It's either going to be justified by
their earnings because they're strong or
they're going to cut back because
they're not getting the productivity
that many people expect. How much are
you watching that the idea of people
saying, "All right, we're not giving you
tokens because you're just making uh
pictures on uh Instagram."
>> Well, I mean I that's definitely
creeping in. I mean, I don't know about
you guys, but on social media, I've
noticed a distinct shift in narrative
where people are beginning to look at
ROIs once again that you you're hearing
headlines like from certain companies
scaling back their token usage just
simply because they're spending
exorbitant amounts of money on vibe
coding and whatever it may be. And I
think the reality is is that yeah, there
is going to be I think to a degree
efficiency gains that need to happen.
But I also just want to take a slightly
different tack which is we're spending
as a as a country, call it a trillion
dollars a year. just yeah make this
round number it's the largest
expenditure as a country an experiment
that we've done since the Louisiana
purchase right now a trillion dollars
being spent is effectively a
redistribution of wealth it's hyperscala
capex that's going that's becoming
revenue of other companies so there that
circularity is sort of almost the
illusion of earnings growth from a capex
cycle in so far that it's it's
generating that revenue that it's giving
a boost to share prices which is
encouraging companies to spend more and
then of course at some point that
circuit breaks. We don't know when, of
course, but the point being is that now
that the street has sort of come to the
idea that actually a trillion dollars is
going to be spent both next year and
probably the year after. And we're
talking about 2028 bottlenecks is the
reason to be bullish semiconductors
still. It's 2026 last time I checked.
And so on that basis alone, I think
we're getting to the point where a lot
of it's already now kind of been
discounted,
>> I guess. Oh, so in other words, you're
not going to see the same kind of pace
of growth. I guess I I wonder if we're
getting to the point where we're saying
like, you know, are humans cheaper than
AI? And I know that sounds really kind
of crass.
>> No, I think people having that
conversation. I think that's fair.
>> I mean, I think that
>> standard charter.
>> Well, [laughter] that's another
conversation. Hey, they apologized,
>> but to me that's that's honestly the
increasing question, right? Is my brain
worth more than the tokens that it will
cost? Well, I mean, maybe not, but
my family my family might beg to differ,
but you know, how much does that play
into the acceleration in revenue growth
and just whether the trillion dollars is
worth it? Look, I think that there is a
long storied history of new
technological capex cycles and
overspending over the short term. And I
I I don't want to make be presumptuous
that this is definitely going to be the
case. But again, if history is any
guide, there's a [clears throat] good
chance that that we're probably going to
spend too much. And we'll grow our way
into it over the long term. And I'll
give you the analog. The analog is 2007
oil was trading $120, $130 a barrel. We
as a society had a a oil molecule
problem. We thought the best solution
would be to go and drill through 5 km of
water off the coast of Brazil and
another 5 km of rock and the break even
was $110 a barrel. So, and that
obviously didn't work out so great. Roll
forward to today, you know, we're trying
to solve data center issues with [music]
potentially building way beyond um our
boundaries, aren't we? So, I I'm just
wondering whether this is sort of an ev
evidence of that overcapacity. Shortages
always end up in gluts, booms, bus. It's
the way it always goes. And then you
build out from there and grow into it.
Alex, appreciate it. It's good to see
you. Thank you, sir. Alexman there of
Barclays from New York City. This is
Bloomberg.
We have about two hours away. Equity
futures up a tenth of 1% adding to a
record-breaking rally. We're looking at
nine weeks of gains here on the S&P 500.
Phenomenal [music] six day winning
streak coming into Friday. Looking to
make it day seven on the NASDAQ by tenth
of 1%. Also the single names [music]
we're looking at this morning. The likes
of Dow and others in the pre-market
absolutely flying. More on that in just
a moment. Turn to the bond market.
Yields retreating. That's [music] the
good news through most of this week.
Down on the week on twos and tens.
Coming into this week, two-year yields
were up for five consecutive weeks. this
morning pulling back and pulling back on
the week by around double digits 4.01%
on the two-year and setting the tone for
the bond market at least on the margin
helping to drive things lower here. Is
this moving [music] crude? Crude down on
the day down on the week down on the
month. We're down by 2%. Brent crude at
92.
>> Yeah, this idea that if you do get some
sort of resolution in the Middle East,
you can go [music] back to more
normalized pricing. And a real question
right now is how much of the inflation
that we've seen or at least inflation
expectations baked into the [music] bond
market have been driven by oil and how
much has been driven by other factors
due to the strength that we're seeing in
some of the earnings. How tied together
are these stories and how much can you
pick them apart?
>> Cash open two hours away. Let's get you
some single names and morning movers.
Yahiara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. As you said, Dell absolutely
flying. Its upside move of nearly 35% is
helping to uh [music] lift its peers HPE
and super micro computer. All this on
the optimism that Dell provided. It
raised [music] its fullear outlook and
said it expects AI server demand to
bring in $60 billion in revenue [music]
next year. Turning to the retailers, we
start with Gap. Those shares absolutely
plunging [music] down nearly 15% in the
pre-market after it cut its fullear
sales outlook. A setback for CEO Richard
Dixon as he tries to turn around the
sprawling [music] retailer. And the
notable miss came from Old Navy. and
Dixon is not taking the out. He is not
blaming the consumer. Instead, he says
they simply did not get it right when it
came to fashion. And we end on American
Eagle. Those shares [music] also
plunging in the pre-market, down more
than 10% after it missed on first
quarter sales. And the story [music]
really here is of two brands moving in
opposite directions. First, you have its
core American Eagle brand that's had
massive campaigns with the likes [music]
of Sydney Sweeney. uh sales there fell
2% while it's airy brand which makes uh
intimates [music] and loungewear those
sales rose 25% so this is a [music]
massive uh divergence that is getting
harder for investors to ignore John
>> Yahara with the update Yahara thank you
that stock trading lower in the
pre-market on our radar this morning the
US and Iran reaching a preliminary deal
to extend the ceasefire by 60 days key
sticking points remain including the
straight of former and Iran's nuclear
program the president has not yet agreed
to the terms elsewhere West SpaceX
trimming the valuation target for its
IPO to 1.8 trillion down from above two.
Anthropic raising 65 billion in its
latest funding round valuing the AI
company at 965 billion US and surpassing
rival OpenAI for the first time. All
three of those companies mentioned in a
race to IPO this year. PC data pushing
the Federal Reserve further away from an
easing bias. Take a listen to this.
Right now we're we're above target on
inflation and so uh the possibility or
probability that we might consider an
interest rate increase in the future I
think has to be greater than zero.
>> Elsewhere the Minneapolis Fed President
Neil Kashari echoing inflation concerns
but maintaining it's too early to call
for rate hikes.
>> I don't see the easing bias in any of
the commentary. That's number one. We've
been talking about that. But putting
that aside, do we see a rate hiking
willingness right now coming from these
Fed officials? The bar is still pretty
high. every single one of them talking
about how inflation is becoming more
entrenched. They're concerned about
where things are. At the same time, you
know, there is a scenario where the
economy might require a rate increase.
That's St. Louis Fed President Alberto
Musulm. You also hear uh from Williams,
President Williams, saying that monetary
policy is right where we want it to be,
not talking about, right? Well, I mean,
maybe he was the one who wanted the
easing bias. So you regardless of what
Kevin Worsh says, this has been an
incredibly doubbish Fed relative to the
inflationary pressures that seem to be
uh heading for another year above that
2% target
>> and certainly compared to other central
banks with the ECB well on course to
hike interest rates in the next few
weeks. Let's talk about the reason for
this conversation. It's central banks
right now at least one of them crude on
track at least for now for its steepest
monthly decline since 2020. Optimism
building for a resumption of traffic
through the straight of Hormurs as
energy producers are highlighting the
risk of an extended closure. Chevron's
been warning quote we will start to see
physical shortages. The CEO Mike Worth,
I'm very pleased to say, joins us in the
studio. Mike, it's good to see you.
>> Good to see you, John.
>> Welcome back to the program, sir. I get
this question a lot. You're the expert.
Help me answer it. Why is crude at 100
at 90 and not close to the 200 given
this straight's been shut for 3 months?
>> You know, it's a little hard to explain.
we really are seeing uh markets tighten,
inventories draw, uh demand for products
around the world still very strong. I
think there's this belief and we you
know we're experiencing it again uh the
last few days that the the end is near,
the conflict is nearly resolved and uh
and flow through the straight will
resume very quickly and that has kept
the the back end of the curve uh lower
than it might otherwise have been. And I
think the psychology of the market has
been this is closer to the end rather
than the beginning.
>> But what about the physical world? When
will inventories be at the very bottom?
>> Before long. Uh we are uh steadily
drawing inventories down on products on
crude uh in locations around the world.
I think uh June and July are going to be
critical months and uh uh you can see
the trajectory of these inventories in
the data and it's it's concerning. Do
you see any physical shortages right now
around the world?
>> We do see some in in some Asian markets
and we've seen some some rationing.
We've seen uh work weeks adjusted, other
demand measures uh imposed in some of
the the countries in Asia. Uh you
markets are very efficient at at at
moving uh products and barrels to where
they're needed and uh we haven't reached
a a crisis point yet, but the uh inertia
in the system is very very strong and
turning that uh is not easy. One of the
main sticking points the US has when it
comes to negotiating with Iran is this
idea of the tolling. Would Chevron
consider paying a toll?
>> No, we wouldn't. Uh
>> do you know how people are paying a
toll?
>> I've heard reports of uh people using
cryptocurrency in various countries. Um
I think the Treasury has come out this
week and and um sanctioned the new
authority that has been put in place to
oversee transit through the straight. Uh
it went from a toll to a navigation fee
to something else.
>> Be a navigation fee.
>> Uh
>> a copy.
>> I don't know enough about any of these
things to uh to to say definitively. But
look, uh freedom of navigation through
international waterways is a very well
established principle. And anything like
this would begin to say that countries
adjacent to uh an international waterway
can charge some sort of a transit fee.
There are many other places in the world
where that principle could be applied
and uh and not just to to energy
products but to all freight moving
through the straits of Malaa, the
Boserus. Uh pick your choke point. Uh
and uh and so that's not a principle I
think that most countries in the world
uh would find uh acceptable.
>> How far are we away from having
pipelines that connect some of these
countries to the mainland and their
production without having to traverse
the straight at all? Well, there's a
couple that exist now that you've you've
talked about uh in Saudi and the UAE.
The UAE sanctioned a project last year
which is about 50% complete to uh to get
more of their production uh over to
Fuyra and outside of the strait. Uh the
so so I think you'll see more of that,
Lisa. Uh the the one opportunity there
is u countries like Iraq and Kuwait that
are deeper up in the Gulf don't have
access to those pipelines. Uh and for
them uh the route could be through the
north and ultimately then into the
Mediterranean uh maybe through Turkey
where we see a pip pipeline comes out of
uh the Caspian Sea uh over into the
Mediterranean in Turkey. And so I I do
think one of the responses to this will
be infrastructure investments that will
allow these energy flows to avoid the
straight hormuz and and that's underway
now and I think you'll see that in the
years that follow. We started the
conversation talking about why oil
prices aren't higher and you're saying
that we're getting close to uh breaking
the bottoms of some of the inventory uh
bins and we were speaking just a moment
ago with Alex Alman at Barclays who said
we actually could see a glut of oil in 6
to 12 months time if there is a
resolution here based on the production
levels of so many different uh oil
companies and countries. What's your
take on that? Do you think that that's a
feasible interpretation? Well, history
says that uh shortages tend to be
followed by gluts and um high prices
send a signal and and markets work. Uh
consumers consume less, producers
produce more in response to a price
signal. And uh and there's a time lag in
in the way both of those manifest
themselves in the market. And what has
happened historically is about the time
that the new supplies reach the market,
demand may have turned down through
conservation measures, economic
slowdown, maybe a recession. And you can
see those lines cross over and the price
cycles down. It's why commodity markets
are cyclical is uh they they tend to
overshoot. And uh you know history says
uh when we get into one of these uh
situations that is somewhere out in the
future.
>> What signal do you take from the futures
curve? I'd love your reaction to that
because so many people have pointed to
the back end of the futures curve as a
prediction of markets of where they
think crude will be. How does an energy
boss like yourself look at the futures
curve?
>> Not very frequently. uh it's not
something we use for planning purposes.
Uh we do a certain amount of hedging in
our business on on commercial activity
where you will use futures but we don't
look at futures curve as a prediction of
future price. We do our own fundamental
analysis on demand, supply, technology,
policy, economic growth and arrive at
our own uh scenarios and we we don't use
a point forecast or a curve. We use a
range of scenarios. uh prices are hard
to predict in these markets and so we
don't anchor on a single price. We use a
range of prices.
>> What's fascinating is you were talking
about how typically commodity markets
tend to overshoot and then you get the
glut just as demand falls off. Are we
overshooting? Because what I keep
hearing is that we're not overshooting.
That actually oil prices and the futures
curve is remarkably low and that people
keep consuming and frankly uh people
like yourself are not investing in more
production right now. You're not
increasing production dramatically to
offset some of what's going on. So is
this time different in terms of the
commodity cycle?
>> Well, first of all, we are increasing
production. Our production will grow 7
to 10% this year, which is a lot in a
world where demand is growing 1% on on
average. Um, and so so there is there is
investment in in growth. U is this time
different? Uh, you know, people say that
every time and uh and often find
themselves regretting having said that.
uh this time is this is the
circumstances here are things we haven't
seen before. The 20% of the world's
energy production cut off uh for now
nearly 100 days uh a billion barrels
that is not in the market that otherwise
would have been in the market is not
something that we've seen before. So
that part of it is different. uh how
commodity markets respond uh have a a
pattern that has been proven through
different types of shocks to the system
that is remarkably repeatable. Maybe not
perfectly predictable, but uh it is
something that you have to bear in mind
when you're in this business as you
allocate capital and as you plan for
your business is uh you know these
patterns exist for a reason.
>> When you allocate capital, I wanted to
ask you about Venezuela. When will you
put fresh dollars into the country?
Yeah, we're uh you know currently uh
operating under a system that's been
approved by the US Treasury and the
Venezuelan government to recover debt
that we're owed. We made some loans to
their stateowned company many years ago
and um and they weren't repaid and so we
set up a mechanism to ensure repayment.
Uh oil flows to the US which is
important for US refiners. Uh we're
working our way through that and we'll
recover the debt over the next year or
so. uh the final portion of it and u and
and then we need uh a new set of fiscal
terms under which uh we would invest in
the country. Right now the uh amount of
tax and royalty that's paid doesn't
leave enough for an investor to get a
return on their investment. Uh the
country has changed its hydrocarbon law
has indicated a new range of taxes and
royalties that would be applied to the
energy sector but they've not been
specific about where in the range those
would land. So there are negotiations
underway, discussions. Even this week we
had a team in Venezuela that had some
discussions on this issue. Uh I expect
over the next short period of time we
may see some clarity from them on
specific values on corporate income tax
on a range of things on royalties and
how that might be applied. So there's
progress being made to clarify the
things that would be needed in order to
make those investments. But we don't
have enough clarity right now. We don't
understand what the uh regime would look
like. And so, uh, it's unlikely we would
put capital to work until those things
are clarified.
>> Inquiring minds want to know, I'm
getting the feedback right now. So,
December's trying to get 84. What is the
mic worth Chevron price this year?
What's the range in your scenario
planning?
>> Well, the range on on the low end would
probably get to that number. Uh, and on
the high end, if uh we were to see an
extended uh constraint on transit out of
the straight of Hormuz, the question is
how high is high? you you you you get to
very high numbers.
>> So your low is actually where December
is priced right now.
>> Yeah. And these are these are all
predicated on some assumptions, right?
That we don't we don't tip into a
recession. Uh we don't have some other
exogenous event. Uh but uh yeah, it's
going to take months, John, to uh to
clear ships out of the straight to make
sure that the mines have been cleared to
establish to get 2,000 ships out. They
don't all go out at once. Uh you need uh
weeks and weeks. Somebody's got to
prioritize. Do uh uh bulk freighters go
out first? Do uh container ships go out
first? Do US allied ships go out first
or last? Uh Iranian 2,000 ships.
>> Who makes that decision?
>> Unclear at this point.
>> Wouldn't it be the fifth fleet?
>> It's unclear at this point. Um so there
needs to be a system to prioritize
traffic. Uh ship owners have to be
convinced that it's safe to transit
through the straight. There need to be
some sort of security measures and then
that's just to get ships out. you have
to get ships in as well. And um and the
the tanks inside the Gulf are full.
That's why production is being slowed or
stopped is because there's no place to
put it. The ships are full, the tanks
are full. So, you need new ships to come
back in. Ship owners have to be
comfortable sending ships back in after
having ships trapped for months and
crews trapped for months. Uh they may or
may not be willing to move all of their
vessels back in. There's other routes
now that are trading. US to Asia is a
very heavily traded route. There's a lot
of ships in that service. So, it will
take months and then you then you start
to clear out the uh the inventories that
are in tanks which allows fields to
restart, damage to be repaired. This
doesn't happen overnight. So, this is
going to be with us for some time.
>> I got to ask you, do you just sit here
and say you first?
>> How do you think about it?
>> Well, we'd like to get our ships out.
>> Uh it's not a decision of the ship. We
have six ships inside the straight right
now with with our cargos. All of them
are chartered, so they're owned by a
third party, and we don't ultimately
make the call. The ship owner decides
whether or not he wants to put his
vessel and his crew uh through the
straight. And uh and so that's a
decision we provide advice on, input,
too. But we can't make that decision.
So, uh it's a very complex set of uh
decisions that need to be made to begin
to get things moving again, and it will
happen slowly. I would expect there'll
be some stop and start to it. Uh there
still has been uh kinetic activity this
week. Some of which has been reported in
the media, some of which has not. And uh
and so we we see risks uh very real
still in that.
>> I'm a journalist. You can't say things
like that.
>> What hasn't been reported?
>> What's not been reported? What are you
hearing?
>> Well, there there have been uh there
have been vessels that have been in
transit that have uh have suffered
attacks that
>> more than what we've heard of in the
press.
>> Yes. Our our reports would indicate
that.
>> What do they suggest? How frequent have
those attacks been? They there they're
there maybe not every day but um there
have been multiple incidents that have
occurred.
>> Okay, more on that in a commercial
break. Mike Worth. Thank you, sir.
Appreciate this. Chevron CEO is going to
stick with us. We'll have more on that
in just a moment. Up next on the
program, we're bringing some domestic
issues into the conversation. Playing
the blame [music] game
>> as it relates to the cost of fuels.
California hasn't changed anything.
Those [music] baseline costs have been
static, but the cost at the pump has not
been for one reason, Donald Trump's
recklessness.
>> Up next on the program, we'll get some
thoughts on that with the Chevron CEO
Mike Worth from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Stocks are positive once again, up by
tenth of 1% [music] on the S&P 500
heading into the final trading day of a
shortened trading week. Doesn't feel
short, that's for sure. NASDAQ futures
up by tenth of [music] 1% also in the
commodity market. Let's talk about crude
again. WTI and Brent Brent crude down to
92. [music] WTI at 8776
under Savannah this morning playing the
blank game
>> as it relates to the cost of fuels.
California hasn't changed anything as it
relates to that cost. Those baseline
costs have been static, but the cost at
the pump has not been for one reason,
Donald Trump's recklessness
as it relates to the war in Iran.
Period. Full stop.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
California Governor Gavin Newsome now
blaming Chevron for the state's high gas
prices. Newsome telling drivers to avoid
filling their tanks at Chevron stations
over the Memorial Day weekend. Mike
Worth is still with us. I imagine Mike
has some thoughts on that and more.
Mike, for the people of California,
people waking up early this morning
perhaps on the West Coast and tuning
into this program. What's your message
to them about why gas prices are so much
higher in their state compared to
everybody else?
>> Well, uh this is politicians gaslighting
about gas prices. Uh the the fact is
California's policies for two decades
have been driving prices higher. Uh
California has six refineries operating
today. uh a little bit more than a year
ago, we had nine. Uh refined uh refining
capacity is down 17% in just the last
year. California uh has the highest
taxes and fees in the nation. Uh
California imports 60% of its crude oil,
25% of its diesel, 25 20% of its
gasoline, uh similar amounts of jet
fuel, and we're in a a situation where
world energy markets are tight. And so,
uh prices are going up everywhere.
California has long been the highest
priced state in the country because the
policies have constrained supply and
demand is continuing to be very robust
in a in a state where supply is uh has
been consciously constrained by policy.
>> But how do some gasoline companies
stations like Costco keep actually lower
prices though?
>> Well, everybody's got a different
business model. I think uh a a you know
a hyperarketer like Costco has things
they use as almost a loss leader to
bring traffic in and can operate on a
very small margin because you go to the
big box and that's where uh the revenue
is and the real P&L comes through the
subscriptions and the memberships. Uh a
small service station owner doesn't have
the benefit of that. Uh they have to
make a margin on the the fuel that they
sell and uh and maybe some ancillary
ancillary goods. So retailers all have
different business models and and you
know you see that in the marketplace and
they they meet different customer needs.
So you see a range of those prices.
>> I'm sure Chevron is going to be on the
mind of Gavin Newsome as he looks for a
2028 presidential run, but it's also
been I mean you've been front and center
when it comes to this administration as
well. Do you spend more time in
Washington or the Perian?
>> Uh lately probably in in Washington. Um
I like being in the Perian. uh but uh I
you know my job requires some
interaction with uh you know elected
officials in the Senate in the House um
the administration and uh during a time
of uh you know extreme uh distress in
energy markets uh there's a lot of
dialogue that goes on in Washington DC
so uh hopefully I'll get to the perian
in the second half of the year
>> yeah which would require gasoline prices
going down and recently they've been
remaining at this relatively high level
although they have dipped just a bit you
talk about how we could end up seeing
shortages in the next few weeks, even in
the United States. Looking right now at
distillate fuel inventories, the lowest
levels here since 2003, a pretty
shocking number. How much could you
foresee gasoline prices in the United
States rising outside of California
because of just simply shortages that
you're seeing on the ground?
>> Yeah, well, right now the US has come to
the rescue of some of our allies around
the world. We're exporting crude at
record levels. We're we're exporting
products uh to Europe in particular. And
uh and so what that means is products
that might otherwise uh be used in the
US are being uh highly valued elsewhere
and uh and and so we're seeing flows in
that direction. Inventories are low for
for diesel for gasoline in in the US and
we're moving into a period of time which
seasonally says demand is likely to
rise. The refineries in the country are
running as hard as they possibly can.
they're all near maximum utilization and
so the market is tight and this is the
reason why uh I've talked about concerns
about upward pressure on prices because
uh you can get away from the crude
forward curve and get to diesel
inventories, gasoline inventories and
the prices of those products which are
really the products that are consumed.
And we're in a period where where
inventories are tight, demand remains
strong, prices are elevated, and there's
there's risk they go higher, and
shortages that have now only really
appeared in Asia could uh begin to show
up in in other parts of the world.
>> Mike, you're one of the very best. A
clinic as always. We appreciate your
time. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Mike
Worth there, the Chevron CEO. As we're
having this conversation, some headlines
just crossing on the latest in Iran. A
little bit of push back against thatou
that's been circulating, at least the
details of which have been circulating
here. to stay side,
>> right? Tasminine is saying that the
texts that Western media are talking
about in terms of thisou aren't
accurate. Um, and that basically means
we're back to square one. But how many
times have we been here when it comes
for tit fortat ping pong? I think the
most important thing is actually do
start to see changes in the street. Less
of what people say. Are we seeing more
vessels get through and less vessels to
Mike W's point not getting attacked?
>> The back and forth continues. Crude at
the moment still lower on the session.
WTI down by 1%. and Brent crude down by
1.5. Coming up next on this program,
we'll catch up with Steven Parker of JP
Morgan Private Bank, Dana Ty of the Taly
Advisory Group on the retail earnings
we've seen all week. Plus Mike Dada of
Roth Capital, Juke Carry Hall of Bank of
America with equities going into the
weekend at record highs.
You know the story. [music] It's all
about earnings.
>> Equities are priced for perfection in a
world that's not that perfect.
>> This is a very selective market. It is a
stock pickers market.
>> The outlook still looks pretty bright.
>> We are in a sort of meltup and we could
have some correction along the way.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores the price action look
like this. Alltime highs coming into
Friday morning. Six day winning streak
on the [music] S&P. Hello, day seven up
by 0.15 on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, up by
0.13, just about unchanged on the small
caps. The bond markets rallied all week
as [music] well. 2-year and 10-year
yields are lower on the week and on the
session. We're down a basis point this
morning to 4.01%. [music]
enthusiasm
in crude for the potential deal that
might be struck between the US and Iran.
Crude declining on the [music] day, on
the week, on the month, down a whole lot
more.
>> The cognitive dissonance that I'm
experiencing right now is very difficult
for me because on one hand, we see these
uh these gains in equities and a decline
in crude price. And then we just spoke
with Mike Worth of Chevron who [music]
talked about potential shortages in the
United States and a real der of uh
actual supply sitting in inventories
that can offset some of the increase in
driving demand. This is coming from an
increasing number of people in the
commodity space and then in the paper
space. You don't see any recognition of
that. But that would change the scenario
for the summer at a time where people
are betting on consumer resilience,
ongoing uh ongoing strength. If you get
550 on gasoline, if you get $6 a gallon,
how much does that change the whole
picture?
>> Yeah, that were my two takeaways. That
was one. The straight of M does matter,
just doesn't matter yet because we've
been drawing down inventories
aggressively and at some point you get
to that point. You get to that point
when you hit tank bottoms and then all
of a sudden like a reverse pandemic
scenario, right? The other way around,
you need prices to go so so high to
destroy demand. How high? Don't know.
Let's hope we never get to that point.
My second takeaway from that
conversation was on the futures curve.
So you pick out a point in the futures
curve and you say to him, okay, this is
where December's at 84 85. Where do you
see things? Where [music] December's
trading is the best case for my worth
Chevron in terms of just how low crude
might go. So the best case for you at
home. That's where he thinks it will be
for the consumer. That's his low for the
year, which is the base case for a lot
of people in this market. Also, he says
he doesn't look at the curve, but if he
did, that's where his is lining up for
[music] the be best case for the
consumer. You know what was interesting
though? He wouldn't give you what the
worst case for the consumer [music] is
or the best case if you're an energy
executive. But it sounded like it was
something along the lines of what Jeff
Curry has been telling us. Maybe upwards
of 200, $250. And why [music] it is so
interesting now and it makes sense that
you see the administration potentially
willing to have aou which means there is
going to be concessions on the table
even if they're not telling you is
because Mike Worth says June and July
are quote critical when it comes to the
physical market
>> and who goes first when you start to get
[music] the ships out.
>> That's interesting.
>> Thought it was a really interesting
conversation too. How quickly do the
ships come out? Who goes [music] first?
And then you need to send the ships in
to get things out. I know that markets
anticipatory asset classes like equities
will look through a lot of that. I
understand [music] that's what stocks
have been doing now for the last several
months, but in the energy market, the
physical world, that's tough.
>> I love how paper markets try to gloss
over all of this. But even when you
study war, [music] it always comes down
to logistics and understanding the
logistics and executing all of those
little details. What about the
psychology of different navigators of
these ships that have been going through
getting shot at, having to go back? How
do you get them, entice them that
they're not going to be putting their
lives at danger to go through? It's
going to cost a lot of money.
>> A lot of money. Brent crude this morning
92. We're down by 1.7%. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Steven Parker
of JP Morgan Private Bank with stocks
building on record highs. Mike Dada of
Roth Capital and why the US economy is
holding up better than the data suggest
and Jill Kerry Hall of Bank of America
as Dell caps off a banner week of tech
earnings. We begin this hour with stocks
riding momentum from the tech trade,
keeping the S&P on track for a ninth
consecutive week of gains. Steven Parker
of JP Morgan Private Bank writing,
"We're upgrading our earnings and price
targets. Our 27 midyear target for the
S&P is now 8,200. There is a potential
bullcase scenario that gets us closer to
9K.
Stephen joins us now for more. Stephen,
good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Let's start with a change. What
underpins it? You're not allowed to say
earnings. Okay, earnings. Go on, tell
us.
>> It It's all earnings. It's It's really
simple. We We came into Q1 markets were
expecting something like 12 or 13%. We
got 30. You know, we're looking at 20%
earnings growth for the year and another
10 to 15% earnings growth for for next
year. So you don't need to make any sort
of heroic assumptions about multiples if
you can get that kind of earnings
growth.
>> The straight of homes have been shut for
3 months. Stocks over that period, the
S&P up 10%, NASDAQ up 20, semis are up
by more than 50%. What have multiples
done over that period?
>> Multiples have come down.
>> That's just crazy to think about, isn't
it?
>> That's the thing. And and tech tech,
which is what people have been most
focused on, most concerned about, has
seen the biggest decline in multiples
because the earnings are just blowing it
out of the water. and and the rally that
we're seeing isn't able to keep up with
the fundamentals.
>> How much does that change if uh consumer
oil prices skyrocket in the next couple
of weeks?
>> Well, I think the thing we have to
remember is that the the market,
particularly the the US large cap market
today feels more different from the
economy than it has at any point in my
career. So, we spent a lot of time
focused on the impact of higher energy
prices on the consumer. The consumer is
a much smaller part of the actual S&P.
What's driving S&P? It's really the AI
story. So it's the technology capex
story and then it's the broader
infrastructure story. The good news is
that earnings growth, tech is a big part
of it, but we're also seeing it in other
sectors like industrials, like
utilities. You know, it's not just a
consumer story.
>> This is a very confusing market when you
try to overlay traditional economics on
top of it because typically if you start
to see oil prices get to a certain
level, that would trigger some sort of
backlash, some sort of reduction in
consumer demand. But right now you have
uh an inelastic spender in the form of
AI and it has to do with the energy
market. It has to do with commodities.
So you could see inflation being
stickier even without the participation
of consumers. How much does that raise
the spectre of a hawkish Fed in response
to something that could be potentially a
shock to the consumer but still leads to
higher inflation in the economy?
>> Yeah. So, first like let's keep let's
remember when we think about the things
that drive earnings and drive revenues,
it's not real GDP growth. And we we've
lowered our real GDP growth, but the
inflation piece of it means that nominal
GDP growth is still growing at a very
healthy percent. So, the broader economy
and you're seeing that pass through. As
it relates to the Fed, we actually think
that Q2 is likely going to be the peak
in economic growth and the peak in
inflation for the year. And so, we think
that we're going to see a slowdown in
the back half. We think we're going to
see inflation begin to to normalize, not
back to the 2% level, but lower than
where it is today. In that case, our
base case view is that the Fed is likely
on hold. You know, we've seen a huge
shift in expectations. We never believe
that the the two or three cuts that we
were expecting at the beginning of the
year. We don't believe we're going to
see the hikes that markets are now
pricing. The Fed's going to be on a wait
and see mode.
>> On hold until when? And then you think
the next move is then what? A cut? We no
we we think that they're on hold through
the middle of next year and then it's
going to be data dependent. You know if
if inflation does remain stickier if we
get some sort of shock then you know
they're in a tricky position. If oil
spikes too much and we looked at this
through through the lens of three
different scenarios. If we get an oil
price shock to you know $140 a barrel
the immediate instinct is going to say
well maybe the Fed is going to have to
hike because of inflation issues. We
think at that level the risks of
recession start to grow to a point when
you may actually be looking at a cut.
It's really this $120 level that puts
the Fed in the trickiest situation.
>> The Fed's on hold, but given everything
around them's changing, is policy
getting easier?
>> Well, we we are seeing signs that that
policy is getting easier. Whether it's,
you know, we're seeing credit spreads
are behaving very well. We're seeing
that, you know, lending is, you know,
continuing to to grow. The rally in
equity markets means that, you know,
financial conditions are are easing. And
so yes, in fact, what we've seen over
the last couple of months is even with
the Fed on hold, financial conditions
broadly are providing more support than
perhaps people are noticing at the
headline level.
>> Just listening to that argument, that's
an argument to buy stocks. Inflation
above target, Fed's not hiking. Buy
stocks. Financial conditions are loose.
These hyperscalers are issuing debt,
raising money to put that money into the
AI ecosystem that is driving the chips
trade. Buy stocks. What would upset the
trade? So I think the the biggest risk
that you're looking at from an equity
market perspective is some sign that the
AI related capex boom is going to slow
down, right? That's underpinning a lot
of these trades, whether it's semis,
whether it's memory, whether it's, you
know, the the infrastructure buildout,
you know, that's the thing that all of
these assumptions that 20% growth is
based on a continuation of this capital
spending. If we were to see signs that
we that we were looking at a pullback in
that spending, that to me is the biggest
risk to the the equity market.
>> How do you gauge whether it's worth it
the cost of some of these AI tools? I
mean, increasingly that's the question,
right? You have to see the return on
investment and if you don't, why do all
these companies keep spending so much uh
going forward?
>> So, I think it's going to take some
time, perhaps a couple of years to get a
definitive answer on that. But one of
the things that we watch closely, we
actually look at a basket of companies
that have indicated in their earnings
announcements that they are leaning in
on AI, not just as a productivity
enhancer, but as a growth driver. And if
you look at the profit margins on the
broad index over the last couple of
years, margins have expanded. It's gone
from 13% to 15%. If you look at the
basket of these companies, those margins
have gone from 13% to 17%. So there are
signs that this AI payoff is actually
taking hold not just in the tech sector
but across a number of industries
broadly financials industrials
healthcare and that's why I think these
companies are going to continue to be
willing to spend.
>> Do you think we're seeing substitution
yet for the technology and real labor?
Are we seeing that? Do you think they
are looking at this technology now and
saying you know what I think it's good
enough to replace someone. I'm letting
someone go. Or do they look at this
technology right now and say it's
getting really expensive. I need to let
someone go to carry on paying for it. I
>> I think that there are pockets where
you're seeing replacement, but I think
that's the lowhanging fruit for
companies, and I don't think that
ultimately those are going to be the
winners of this AI trade. The companies
that are ultimately going to be the
biggest beneficiaries are the ones that
use this technology not to replace
labor, but to enhance it, to upskill
labor. And and that's what we're
focusing on. We're we're not hiring any
less analysts or summer interns. We're
just having them come in with tools that
are going to make them better, faster,
more productive at what they do and able
to spend less time formatting charts and
more time researching investment
opportunities.
>> Is that a sector story then the
financials or do you see that at
individual names within a sector? What's
the argument now from an equities
perspective?
>> One, I think it's going to be across
every sector. I don't think there's any
part of the equity market where AI is
not going to be an important
differentiator.
>> It lifts all boats.
>> I Well, no, it's not going to lift all
boats. I think it's going to lift the
boats of the companies that really
commit and spend on AI. I think what
you're going to see is greater
differentiation between companies within
sectors and across the market. You know,
companies that use AI to focus on simply
replacing labor. I think that's a
short-term sugar high. I think that the
companies that focus on AI as a
productivity tool to drive growth are
going to be the ultimate winners. That
creates a really interesting opportunity
for active managers.
>> So, if I hear someone say they want to
replace low value human capital, that's
not a buy. Uh that that I I won't
comment on that. That that's that's
certainly not what we're doing.
>> You avoid Stephen. It's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
Stephen Parker there of JP Morgan
Private Bank on the spot. Forgive me,
but a lot of people will be thinking
about that question going forward.
>> There are going to be losers, though.
And what's interesting is it's not going
to be at companies or individuals
necessarily, but they're going to be
companies that gain market share so much
so that some of the other companies fall
out of business. So, it's going to be
bigger companies that have a bigger glut
of business that kind of knock some of
the others out of the out of the
running.
>> The more constructive way of thinking
about things. We saw this from David
Solomon in his essay in the New York
Times. Well written piece. If you
haven't read read it, go over and read
it. Also heard it from the BMY CEO Robin
Vince on this program just yesterday.
Capacity builder. It gives them extra
capacity to do more. That's the
constructive view that I hope is the way
this goes forward. I hope it's not the
more the more depressing view that came
from research. If you go back, if you go
with that view, you think about a
Walmart or a Costco that's able to
monetize the data that they have,
implement some of these tools. Well,
then that's going to destroy a lot of
the mom and pops, which already has been
happening, right? In the financial
sector, what does that mean for smaller
banks, for ones that can't adapt to this
change, or is the market just going to
expand that much more? These are the
questions that people are increasingly
asking.
>> Stephen, good to see you. Thank you,
buddy. Thank you very much. Futures
positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
with an update on stories worldwide.
With your Bloomberg brief, Yahara has
more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Iranian state media claiming
the text of the preliminary deal between
the US and Iran is being [music]
incorrectly reported by Western media.
Sources told us here at Bloomberg that
the two sides reached a tentative deal
extending the ceasefire by 60 days
[music] and to launch nuclear talks.
Meanwhile, Anthropic raising a fresh $65
billion in its latest funding round. The
funding was led by several firms
including Google and Amazon who each
contributed several [music] billion
dollar. The influx lifting Anthropic
past its rival OpenAI's valuation for
the first time. And in sports, the NBA
Western Conference Finals is heading for
a decisive game seven. The San Antonio
Spurs [music] dominating the Oklahoma
City Thunder in front of the home fans
with Jeryama led all scorers with 28
points. Game [music] seven tips off
Saturday night with the winner set to
face the New York Knicks in the finals.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> dude is a monster. Total beast. [music]
Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Isn't
that the best news for you and the
Knicks? Game seven.
>> Yes, because we want them to exhaust
themselves. [music] But overnight there
was reports that Mitchell Robinson,
Knicks player, fan favorite, broke his
pinky. I hope it's going to be okay. Or
just you're going to have to tape it up,
dude. You're going to play with a
broken. That's the message. Suck it up.
>> Suck it up. It's a broken finger.
>> It's a pinky.
>> Okay. [music] But still, you know, he's
a basketball player and it's a broken
finger.
>> All right. Suck it up. Apparently,
Amarie, not me.
>> Happy Friday. Futures positive by a
tenth of 1%. Up next on the program, the
morning cause plus [music] Danny Telsey
of the Telsey advisory group as the
retailers paint a mixed picture on the
US consumer. That conversation up next.
June and [music] July are going to be
critical months and uh uh you can see
the trajectory of these inventories in
the data and it's it's concerning. One
of the responses to this will be
infrastructure investments that will
allow these energy flows to avoid the
straight horses. Shortages tend to be
followed by gluts. About the time that
the new supplies reach the market,
demand may have turned down and the
price cycles down. Such a brilliant
exchange with the Chevron CEO Mike Worth
about the difficulties in the energy
sector right now and the complexities
when it comes to getting energy moving
again through the straightforward and it
goes beyond a deal between the US and
Iran. Once that happens, then you've got
these logistical questions you need to
address getting ships moving again. Who
goes first? Getting ships back in before
they get back out. And also he gave a
nod to maybe this idea that things are
tense, more tense than we were led to
believe this week. ships finding it very
very difficult to get in and out [music]
the straight of former.
>> Yeah. Basically that more skirmishes
potentially or clashes were happening
that have gone unreported. Also, if a
deal is struck before even whoever
decides, he said he didn't know. I
thought maybe it' be the fifth fleet. He
didn't know who actually decides [music]
who goes first to these whatever 2,000
ships that are stuck. You have to make
sure that there are no mines left cuz as
of a few days ago, Sentcom was saying
the Iranians were trying to lay mines
once again. [music] So that's the
situation in Middle East. Now let's
bring it home and talk about
domestically in the United States. We've
talked about this a number of times on
the program. We've been cushioned by the
amount of inventories [music] we've had
worldwide, but particularly state side
that we've been eating into to supply
this market to cushion the market if you
will and stop prices from going to
infinity and beyond. He thinks we're
getting pretty close. I'm not going to
put a date on it. He wouldn't put a date
on it, but getting pretty close to
testing tank bottoms. And when that
happens, [music] we got a big issue.
Just to give you an example, US
distillate fuel inventories have dropped
[music] to the lowest level in the
United States since 2003. It has been
absolutely falling off a cliff. You see
a similar dynamic in gasoline. The US
has been exporting a lot to the rest of
the world because prices have been
higher there. As this goes on, do they
redivert some of the supplies back to
the United States with oil prices going
higher or globally? Do you just see this
race to try to obtain obtain gas leading
prices to go to the moon? I mean, what
is the limit to potentially the upside
in [music] prices?
>> 92 on Brent this morning. WTI around 87.
Equity futures doing okay. Positive by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. A record on the
S&P 500. A record [music] on the NASDAQ.
That's up as well by a tenth of 1%.
Let's talk about one single name. Your
morning calls. One stock in focus. It's
Dell. First up, Barclay's more than
tripling its price target to 550,
keeping an overweight rating on the
shares following its massive earnings
beat. Elsewhere, Wells Fargo hiking its
price target to 505, saying the
inflection in traditional nonAI server
demand was a standout. And finally,
[music] JP Morgan lifting his price
target to 500, highlighting the demand
environment tracking well above
expectations, saying Dow's underlying
strength remains evident across multiple
drivers. That stock is up 35% and
analysts are struggling to keep up.
Elsewhere, a busy week of retail
earnings giving a mixed read on the US
consumer. Dana Ty of the TYI advisory
group lifting her price target on Best
Buy, trimming her target on American
Eagle, writing, "Current data points are
demonstrating resiliency even in the
midst of macro volatility." Dana joins
us now for more. Dana, good morning.
>> Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for
having me.
>> We were talking about the gap, how
refreshing it is to have a CEO just come
out and say, you know what, I'm not
going to blame the consumer, not going
to blame the environment. We missed it.
Why did they miss it?
>> They missed it in Old Navy. They missed
it in dresses, whether some of the
seasonal dresses. But the interesting
data point is they're beginning to see
some signs of improvement. They did well
in Old Navy, in men's, and also in
women's tops. And you have to say the
Gap brand, a 10% comp in the Gap brand,
we haven't seen a 10% comp in the Gap
brand in a long time. And they raised
their earnings for the year, their
guidance, some of it due to a lower tax
rate, but also the confidence they have
in the other brands. It is the Old Navy
brand. athleticism small, but that's in
focus in order to show some signs of
improvement.
>> As an analyst, how do you price mistakes
in fashion like this? Because it wasn't
just the gap, it was also what we saw
from Abbercrombie and Fitch with a
couple of missteps, evidently jeans or
pants or whatever didn't sell as well as
people expected. How do you game that
out for long-term multiples? I think
overall when you look at the companies
and companies aren't stocks and stocks
aren't companies. Companies are going to
have misses in fashion sometime, but as
long as they can reverse themselves and
you're seeing the other components of
the business grow because it's always an
equation and algorithm, sales growth,
less expenses, hopefully expenses don't
grow as much, give you earnings growth.
When you think of the drivers of Gap
right now, and you see the fact that the
Gap brands accelerating, they're
investing in marketing. They're going to
be net store openers now from being flat
and closers over the years. You look at
the new loyalty program, look at the
innovation they have with Zach Posen and
product with collaborations. They have
become part of that cultural
conversation and are relevant again. So
I think opportunities like this and
obviously you don't want misses but it
is an opportunity because I think they
get back in the saddle and we see the
biggest business progressing and it's a
low multiple right now and you think
about the consumer and just the consumer
sector. They've been a bit resilient.
We're going through this first quarter
earnings season as definitely gasoline
prices have gone up. We know about the
stickiness of stickiness of headwinds.
Look at what you just talked about with
the conflicts in the Middle East. Yet a
17% comp at raw stores, a 17% comp at
Ralph Lauren. You just talked about Best
Buy also. And I see more green shoots
that not when the consumer sector in
stocks haven't participated. Overall,
the XRT retail index is flat. You look
at the Dow and the S&P, they're up mid
single digits to low double digits. So,
valuation matters in the consumer
sector.
>> Are you seeing any increase in margins,
ability to raise prices or cater to the
higherend consumer to pat out some of
the earnings?
>> We've seen that. I was with Tapestry
earlier this week. You look at the Coach
brand. Yes, they've had ability to raise
margins. You're seeing that from others
also. And what you don't know is who
knows when companies are going to get
tariff refunds, but that back half of
the year that could come into play and
be a benefit.
>> Interesting. You mentioned Tapestry. Any
chance we see a tie-up with Capri under
this administration?
>> No. I think basically Tapestry is
focused on the coach brand executing the
and amplifying the growth that they
have, capturing new customers, and
they're focused on reinstating growth
and getting to stabilization. for Kate
Spade.
>> Coach is doing really well. But it
reminds me of the coach of like the
early 2000s,
>> but it's selling off the shelves. What
are they tapping into?
>> I think overall the data insights that
they glean about their consumer and what
they like. I'll give you an example.
They basically survey what what Gen Z
customers are spending time on. They
like reading books. They did an campaign
all about storytelling in books. What
did it do? They added new items to
whether it's the Brooklyn collection,
whether it's the Tabby collection and it
comes into play. You look at their
stores, they've now added these coach
coffee shops to some of their stores.
Destinations where consumers spend time
with relevancy of product provides an
experience that works.
>> What did you think of Ferrari torching
its brand earlier this week?
>> Oh, that's interesting.
>> Any feedback on that?
>> No, I haven't heard any feedback there.
>> Okay. All right. Dana, good to see you
as always.
>> Good to see you, too. Thank you,
>> Danny there of the Taly Advisory Group.
Coming [snorts] up a little bit later,
don't miss this. 10:15 Eastern time. The
GAP CEO Richard Dixon catching up with
Bloomberg's Lisa Brem. It's our very own
Bremer later on this morning.
>> Well, key to me is first of all, he
didn't blame the consumer as you were
talking about, which is really notable.
>> It's encouraged.
>> It's encouraged. Yeah, I think that
that's that's an honest look at what
went wrong and then how's he going to
fix it, right? What actually happened at
Old Navy as Dana Telsey was noting with
respect to the dresses? How do they get
a better gauge on that? I also am
curious how he's deploying some of these
AI tools and how he gauges whether the
cost is worth whether the juice is worth
the squeeze given the conversation that
we keep having.
>> They have some cool World Cup merch at
Gap and at Old Navy. [music]
>> Haven't seen that.
>> And you know what? Maybe next quarter
will be good.
>> I'll check it out. The first luch
[music] merchant of this morning.
Squeeze that in.
>> Yeah, you got to It's Friday. We have to
We have to mention every single day this
week.
>> Didn't buy.
>> Well, yeah, Chevron might have. I
actually was curious if Mike Worth had
bought a a loose that would have been a
good
>> Definitely not. Mike Worth is not
rolling around.
>> I think that he would have enjoyed it.
>> Mike Der of Roth Capital.
>> He joins us next.
>> Equity futures firmer here by a tenth of
1% 60 minutes out from the opening bell.
What a run we've [music] been on. Nine
weeks of gains almost going into the
weekend. Quite a stellar weekly run of
gains on the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq,
positive by a tenth of 1%. In the bond
market, twos, tens, and 30s, yields look
like this this morning. Twos just about
unchanged at 4.01%. Tens at around 444.
Just some pressure coming out of the
bond market. Bit of a rally building
through the week. This has helped,
that's for sure. This move in crude,
WTI, [music]
and Brent. Brent crude this morning down
to 92. WTI at about 87. [music] As we
count it down to the cash open, let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Yahihira has more. Hey, Yahira.
>> Hi, John. Dell's massive upside move of
more than 30% in the pre-market [music]
is helping to lift its peers with super
micro computers and HPE also rising in
the pre-market. All this tied to the
optimism that Dell provided. The company
raising its fullear outlook and saying
that AI server [music] demand will help
bring in $60 billion in revenue next
year. Turning to the cyber security firm
Sentinel 1, those shares [music] are uh
plunging nearly 15% in in the pre-market
after it delivered a disappointing
[music]
uh outlook and announced plans to cut
roughly 8% of its workforce. And while
analysts note that [music] demand is not
collapsing, what they're questioning is
uh why this company isn't uh isn't
capturing more of the spending move the
spending boom in [music] cyber security.
And we end on the retailers. They are
getting punished in the pre-market. Both
Gap and American Eagle disappointing
when it cames to sales. Gap says the
issue was not the consumer. It was
[music] execution. CEO Richard Dixon
acknowledging the company missed the
mark on key seasonal fashion [music] at
American Eagle. Uh the divergence
continues between its core brand and its
brand Airy [music] and that is causing
shares to plunge 12%. John
>> Yhara, thank you. I imagine investors
aren't going to be happy. understand why
no one wants to see a stock you hold
down [music] that much, but refreshing
that we're not blaming the weather, the
consumer, the price of energy, the FX
[music] market. Just saying, you know
what, we've got a product, we've got to
execute, and we did it.
>> And it highlights how strong the
actually underlying economy really is as
far as execution [music] going forward.
How do you get it right? Right. And how
much do comp are investors potentially
patient given that fashion tends to be
fickle? I mean, what do you do? [music]
Check on the memes.
>> Exactly. the look didn't hit and that's
the problem. Uh but it is fickle and if
you have a le less discretionary income,
you're going to be I know you hate this
word, but you really are going to be
choiceful in where you decide [music] to
spend that money.
>> Choiceful.
>> You are
>> choiceful, selective.
>> Okay, why not go to a richer?
>> Choiceful just sounds like you've got
more choices. Do you know what I [music]
mean? But you don't cuz you've got less
money. So, I just don't like the word
choiceful for that reason.
>> Selective is good,
>> right? Because the retailers will say
that consumers are choiceful. Well,
they're not. They've just got fewer
choices. So why have they got choice
full? [music]
>> It's your glass half empty,
>> right?
>> You've got fewer choices. You're not
full of choices.
>> Thank you, Grandma. What What is hitting
right now? What is the look? I wear the
same thing all year. [laughter] What is
the
>> Well, because you wear a suit and tile.
>> Actually, it's interesting. [music] I
find that more and more people are
finding similar looks, what they would
call dupes of more expensive brands. I'm
not talking about Gap exactly, dupes
[music] on things like Amazon.
on Amazon. People are shopping on Amazon
for clothes now.
>> Yes.
>> That look like the real deal.
>> Okay, got it. You're doing the same
thing.
>> You're asking me about fashion all year.
I honestly if I just would have a
uniform that would work for me.
>> Almost like Zuckerberg just with like a
wardrobe with just, you know,
>> I wish women could get away with that.
Honestly, I would wish I could do that.
100% black t-shirt and jeans.
>> Talk about the bond market. Treasury
yields elevated as investors weigh
cautious commentary from Fed officials.
Joining us now to discuss Ira Jersey of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Ira, the good
news this week, at least as yields have
fallen back. Good news, of course, if
you're looking for yields to fall back
on twos and on tens. Ira, I just want to
start with the commentary from Fed
officials. We've had some push back to
the easing bias, but from what I hear
from the likes of Neil Kashgari of the
Minneapolis Fed, I get the sense of the
bar is still pretty high for a rate
hike. How high is that bar?
>> Yeah, I think I think it is pretty high.
for for one thing uh they they really
want to see more sustained inflationary
pressures and uh not the lack of
spending. You guys have been talking a
lot about spending and the consumer uh
in the last few minutes and and one of
the uh things that I think worries a lot
of the Fed officials is will we see a
slowing in the real economy excluding
energy um because that that does tend to
slow real growth. So they're worried
that hey if we hike interest rates now
we might be the cause of a recession and
that's the last thing that we want to do
at the moment. Ira, what do you think
the biggest risk is right now? A hawkish
mistake or a doubbish one?
>> Yeah, I think it's a hawkish mistake
actually. And I I know there's a lot of
people disagree with me. We've been at,
you know, a little bit above the 2%
target for quite a long time. Um, but
but I think the risk is from uh just
from the macroeconomic sense is that if
we if they were to hike interest rates
now, uh you get the short end of the
yield curve up, probably the curve bare
flattened in that situation. And um I if
that were to occur, you'd wind up in
this awkward situation where you'd
actually enhance some spending, right?
Some AI spending, for example, that is
debt financed because the 10-year yield
might not move very much at all, but
short-term interest rates wind up going
up. So, you wind up slowing the consumer
more. You have less uh short-term debt
that's going to be used to uh to to
enhance the economy. So, things like
auto loans and the like would wind up
being more costly, and that would just
hurt the consumer even more. That said,
Ira, does it make any sense for them to
maintain an easing bias based on what
we're hearing from a lot of CEOs,
including retailers? I mean, even Gap
and American Eagle, saying any miss was
simply because of fashion misses, not
because of consumer a consumer that
seems to be struggling in any way.
>> Well, you know, I agree that they
probably aren't going to be cutting
anytime soon. And you know, that easing
bias that that basically one phrase in
the statement that people claim was
easing bias, you had to squint to see
the easing bias. Um so so I really think
that um you know they they they're in at
neutral territory you know by by some
measures and you you know yesterday uh
uh you know Stephanie Rule excuse
[clears throat] me not Stephanie Rule um
uh we Bloomberg television had a Fed
president on and you know he mentioned
hey 1% is our our star target right our
neutral rate and we're basically a
little bit under that. So that's the
reason why I think people think, hey,
they might hike interest rates. But I
think from the Fed's perspective,
they're like, okay, look, if energy
prices come back down, you wind up with
oil back at $80 a barrel. We're probably
still looking at 2 and 1 half to 3% um
uh 3% inflation. 100 basis points over
that is right where we are now. Um so so
that's why they think we're pretty close
to probably neutral in the medium term,
not necessarily in the long term.
>> Shout out Steph. That's a throwback 10
years ago.
>> Yeah.
I worked with her too. So
>> So did I. Good times. Ara, thank you
sir. Appreciate it. AR Jersey there of
Bloomberg. Mike Dada of Roth Capital
writing the following. High frequency
data remains robust. We're not seeing
meaningful softening in overall macro
momentum. Mike joins us now for more.
Mike, I'll repeat the question that I
asked IRA just moments ago. The biggest
risk here, a dovish mistake or a hawkish
one?
>> Thanks for having me on, Jonathan. Look,
I think the Fed is really well
positioned here. Let's keep in mind
they've dropped policy rates almost 200
basis points and so they've already done
a considerable amount of easing
considering that the business cycle has
not fallen apart on us. So, you know, if
they're neutral, pretty close to
neutral, maybe slightly below neutral,
just stay neutral right as we move
through these shocks. So, you know, I'm
not really answering your question
because I think they're in in in a
pretty good posture. So, just keep it
up. more of the same.
>> So, you agree with John Williams of the
New York Fed that you think policy right
now, Mike's, at a good place.
>> I think it's in a good place and, you
know, certainly you could argue that,
you know, perhaps the Fed is maybe just
a little bit below neutral. That's a
shock absorber for the economy uh as
this, you know, as these uncertainties
hit us. Last year, we, you know, dealt
with a big tariff shock. Obviously,
geopolitical and energy has been the
story this year. And through it all,
we've maintained essentially full
employment and the flow of macro data
has been quite impressive. And I think
that speaks to the fact that the Fed has
not clobbered the economy with a
contractionary monetary policy on top of
a supply shock. If we go back to some
old research that former Fed chair Ben
Bernani did back in 1997,
he and a team looked at the 1970s oil
shocks, the 1990 recession, and came to
the conclusion that it was actually
contractionary monetary policy that did
most of the heavy lifting in terms of
economic disturbances, not the oil
shocks themselves. And so, we're living
proof in this cycle so far that the
Fed's basically getting it right. That
said, Mike, a real question about how
much inflation really is just being
driven by the oil shock that you're talk
that we're seeing versus broaderbased
pressures as consumers keep spending as
you do see their savings still yes
getting depleted but still available and
as you see these incredible earnings
from companies.
>> Absolutely. I mean look the equity
market has been super optimistic.
Earnings have been quite strong. You
know, markets aren't always right, but
they do look forward. If we come through
this, and I think we're coming through
it, you know, there is some risk of a
broaderbased economic acceleration, and
that would likely cause markets to price
in potentially a, you know, more
meaningful probability that the next
move is a tightening or a rate hike by
the Fed. I don't think that's coming
anytime soon, you know, but if we were
in an environment later this year where
the labor market's actually tightening
with the unemployment rate dropping,
uh I think, you know, incoming Fed Chair
Kevin Worst has his work cut out for him
because I think you'd see a lot more
hawkish voices on the Fed uh in that
scenario. A number of economists have al
also talked about the idea that the
neutral rate is significantly higher
than what people initially thought that
it wasn't necessarily 3% but it could
even be closer to four or even above
that based on just the growth that we're
seeing despite where rates are. Do you
agree with that? Do you think we need to
reassess the potential in this economy?
>> Well, I think we know for sure it's
higher than it was in the last cycle
because the economy has, you know,
performed quite well with much higher
rates. So, that kind of tells you what
you need to know. We can't measure the
re the neutral rate in in real time
unfortunately
uh but we can look at how the economy is
performing and as we go through these
supply side disturbances tariffs last
year energy this year the key is you
know how are these nominal aggregates
holding up nominal income nominal
spending supply shocks mostly impact the
the real side they drive it down and
inflation gets driven up so the nominal
aggregates you know aren't really
reflective uh all in except except for
you know the the the impact that
monetary policy is imparting and they've
been quite steady 4 and a half to 5 1.5%
terms of nominal spending and that gets
reoriented to more inflation and less
real growth with a supply shock but the
central bank can't do anything about
that so this tells me you know Fed
probably pretty close to neutral here
unlike the situation in 2022 when we had
you know a supply shock in energy
markets uh nominal aggregates were
growing at a double digit pace. So the
Fed was off sides then and needed to
tighten policy and that is not the case
today and that's good news and the
markets are celebrating that. Michael,
what if we see the worst case scenario
that the Chevron CEO talked about which
is at the end of the year you're looking
at prices much higher than the curve is
pricing in maybe closer to $200 $250
even. He didn't say those words but
that's what we were gleaning into. What
does the Fed do then? Because you can't
hike for lower oil prices.
Yeah, I think in that kind of a scenario
then you know we would have much more
downward force exerted on on real
incomes on the real economy and more
upward pressure on inflation. So that is
a more severe supply side shock. The
economic literature says that the
central banks should really try to look
through that not respond to it with a
drastic tightening of policy which would
just have a hugely compounding effect on
the real economy. So, you know, that's
not a situation that anyone wants to
see. It's certainly the worst case
scenario for the central bank because
they're having to explain away, you
know, even higher inflation after having
missed the target for 5 years and you've
got the economy weakened. So hopefully
we avoid that. But in that kind of a
scenario, you would really want the
central bank to be looking through that
kind of a disturbance if it's on the
supply side. Central banks can do
demand, but they don't control the
supply side of the economy. They don't
control energy scarcity uh and they
don't you know control trend
productivity. So so they would have to
do the look through see-th through
approach that you know so far has served
them quite well. That's what they did
with the tariffs and that's what they've
done so far.
>> Has it served them well though Mike and
I guess this is the struggle I've got.
So help a brother out. I'm struggling to
internalize this. How is monetary policy
both in a good place but inflation's
been above target for 5 years. How do
you square that? Well, Jonathan, I think
we talked about this last time. I mean,
the Fed did make an inflationary goof uh
in a major one in 2021 and 2022. So,
that was the initial catalyst for
inflation going way over target. The
nominal aggregates exploded like you
didn't see since the 1970s. They've
largely corrected that. Uh but we have a
tariff shock and an energy shock
recently that have, you know, largely
contributed to the inflationary
overshoot. The Federal Reserve Board did
some very good research at the end of
last year showing the tariff shock
probably was responsible for the the
full overshoot in PCE inflation before
we went into the energy shock this year
and now obviously you know we have
another shock underway. So let's give
them at least partial credit for doing
it right over the course of the last few
years. But you are right, you know, that
they they did have a policy mistake and
a major one along with, you know,
excessively easy fiscal policy earlier
in the expansion.
>> Mike, it's good to see you. It always
is. It's great to hear from you, buddy.
Mike Dada there of Roth Capital on the
latest. Equities on the S&P just about
positive. The NASDAQ flipping negative
briefly just moments ago. Let's give you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhierra has more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. We are seeing Dell shares
rising 33% in the pre-market after it
issued a revenue outlook that far
exceeded expectations. The company now
expects a massive $60 billion in AI
server revenue next year. While demand
for traditional servers also helped
drive results. SpaceX [music] adjusted
its IPO valuation target to at least
$1.8 trillion from a previously [music]
estimated 2 trillion. The company is
seeking to raise as much as 75 billion
which would make it the biggest IPO of
all time. It's expected to [music] start
formal marketing of its IPO as soon as
next week. And the third round of the
French Open is underway in Paris [music]
in the tournament has already produced a
major surprise. World number one Yannik
Center lost in five sets. He was just
one game away from victory in [music]
the third set before his opponent
mounted a comeback, winning the next
three sets to send the top seed crashing
out. Apparently, it's hot [music] in
Paris. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Suffering from serious
heat in Paris. Yanik [music] was
cruising to a win and then absolutely
collapsed.
>> We've talked about this before, the
physical prowess [music] of some of
these individuals to be able to play
that hard for that long in that kind of
weather. You know, props for trying. I
don't even try.
>> I was surprised he carried on playing.
Exactly.
>> To be honest with you. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead and the week ahead. Plus, we'll
catch up with Jill Carrie Hall of Bank
of America on how AI is benefiting
[music] small caps. That conversation up
next.
As the market's going up, volatility is
rising with it. And that's sort of
indicative of a chase and reach for
upside. [music] We're effectively
advocating and say like you you've got a
lot of gains hopefully and it's actually
a good opportunity. You should be
hedging when you can not [music] when
you have to.
>> That was a more cautious Alexman of
Barclays there. Much more cautious over
the past few weeks on this equity
market. Equity markets look like this
right now. Positive going into the cash
open up by a tenth of 1% on the S&P just
about unchanged at the moment on the
NASDAQ. On the Russell down by 210 of 1%
for the week ahead things are stacking
up as follows. We get some data on
Monday. PMI and ISM manufacturing data.
Tuesday, the jolts report. Wednesday,
some earnings. Look out for Broadcom
Crowd Strike. Plus, we get more data,
ISM services data. Thursday, jobless
claims. Lulu in focus on Thursday, too.
Lulu has been awful this year. That
stock is one of the biggest losers on
the year so far on the S&P 500. Friday,
the payrolls report. So, for the Federal
Reserve, you've got payrolls next
Friday. The following Wednesday, you've
got CPI. Then the following Wednesday is
the FOMC decision. How do they balance
this other than just removing an easing
bias? A lot of it will det be determined
by wage growth and not just wage growth,
but how much uh how much we see ongoing
gains in the labor [music] market. To
me, Friday is going to be a big deal.
>> Does any of it matter if you won't
doubt? The stock is up by 35% [music]
this morning. Absolutely skyrocketing.
Demand for AI servers showing no signs
of slowing down at all. It's not just
large caps. Jill Kerry Hall of Bank of
America writing this. AI beneficiaries
aren't just in large caps. You're also
seeing this in small and midcap mentions
of AI are skyrocketing. Jill joins us
now for more. Jill, welcome to the
program. We've seen this, Bill. Just
last week, I noticed that small caps
outperformed equal weight outperformed.
Jill, is it still just the one trade?
It's still about tech and AI.
I think some of it's been about tech and
AI because if you look at, you know, the
top contributors to the Russell 2000
performance this year, a lot of them
have been some of the AI infrastructure
stocks. Um, but but certainly you've
seen, you know, energy and commodity
oriented sectors outperform. Um but but
I think you know there's still even
though small caps are up you know 18
plus percent this year they're still not
up as much as earnings are expected to
be up and there's still some sectors
that have lagged you know financials
healthcare um some areas that have that
have looked good in our work. So I still
think that there's upside for for
pockets of small caps this year. Are
there particular industries that you see
benefiting disproportionately from
either AI efficiency gains or other
dynamics that stand out aside from the
whole index?
>> I mean I think healthc care overall both
in large and small caps um is is one
that will benefit has a lot of use cases
from AI. Our analysts have written about
this. Um I think small caps overall will
benefit on the efficiency side just
because they're a lot more labor
intensive than than large caps. So they
have you know higher ratios of employees
relative to sales within small caps. Um
so I think sectors like financials you
know can still see uh not only from AI
just you know productivity improvements
automation potentially even you know
deregulation taking costs out um so I
think it's it's something even
industrials you know is a generally
labor intensive sector. So I think there
are a lot of areas um you know AI
automation efficiency gains that can
help. Does this thesis hold ground if
oil prices surge once more in the face
of say a deal that doesn't come together
or even just a restart of some of the
conflict?
>> Right. I mean I think you know higher
oil prices so far have been beneficial
to to earnings overall and to small
caps. Small caps have more exposure to
areas like energy and commodity
beneficiary sectors than they do sectors
that get hurt from higher oil prices.
And there's been a buffer so far. you've
had um you know consumers benefit from
from stimulus and tax refunds. Um
there's been some draw down of savings
rates. Usually consumption doesn't get
impacted until several quarters later.
So um consumers have held up okay so
far, but obviously if uh you know oil
goes back above $100 a barrel and stays
there for for an extended period, then
there's risk that that has a bigger
impact on the consumer and growth. So if
stagflation risks rise, stagflation
doesn't tend to to be beneficial to
equities. Equities tend to underperform
other asset classes. But within
equities, midcaps and um small caps and
and value stocks have historically held
up better than um large caps and growth
stocks during inflationary periods
historically.
>> Well, we just caught up with Mike Worth,
the Chevron CEO, and he said June and
July is going to be quote critical.
Jill, what does it look like for the
consumer if we're seeing north of $5 a
gallon in gasoline,
>> right? And and you know, usually the the
impact to consumers does take about
three quarters for the the oil shock to
to flow through and hit consumption
since, you know, as mentioned, usually
savings rates get drawn down first. Um,
and the consumer was in good shape to
begin with. uh and we've had that
stimulus, but the longer that that oil
stays above $100, the the bigger the
risk is that as we get into the second
half of this year, um which will also be
heading into midterm. So, you know, if
there's a focus on on affordability
measures and a focus on getting uh gas
prices down, then then obviously that
that will help the consumer. But um you
know we've been within our S&P 500 work.
That was one reason we've been more
positive on staples than discretionary.
If if we do see a continued focus on
affordability as well as just the fact
that you know focusing on needs over
wants that that staples could hold up
better than discretionary if there is
some weakness on the consumer side.
>> I cannot even begin to think about the
politics of the midterms right now.
Jill, thank you. Jill Kerry Hill there
of Bank of America. Let's worry about
that later on in the summer. maybe like
the back end of the summer.
>> Yeah, don't ruin September. It's just
starting to get nice. Let's address the
situation in the Middle East and move on
from there first.
>> I I would agree with that. The issue is
this really ties together. I mean, Mike
Worth is spending a lot of time in
Washington DC for a reason because as
much as the market wants to move on, it
hasn't moved on when it comes to the
actual physical world and that could
potentially present an issue
>> happening right now in Rekavic, Iceland,
the economic conference. We'll keep
tracking that for you right here on
Bloomberg TV. Getting comments from the
Fed Governor Mickey Bowman. We'll bring
you the headlines throughout the day
right here on Bloomingberg television.
Coming up on Monday following the
weekend, Aaron Canada, Clear Harbor
Asset Management joins us. Torson Slo of
Apollo, Sharon Miller of Bank of
America, Pitier of Academy Securities
from New York [music] City this morning.
Good morning. Who knows if this deal
gets wrapped up this weekend or not, but
thank you for choosing Bloomberg TV and
have a wonderful weekend. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.